
--- PAGE 1 (TEXT) ---
OWNER'S MANUAL
FRENCH DOOR 
REFRIGERATOR
Read this owner's manual thoroughly before operating the 
appliance and keep it handy for reference at all times.
ENGLISH
LFCC22426* / LFCS27596* / LFCC23596* / LRFCS29D6* / LRFCC23D6* / LF29T6000*
MFL70761715
Rev.12_070425
www.lg.com
Copyright © 2019-2025 LG Electronics. All Rights Reserved
Scan to see the online manual.


--- PAGE 2 (TEXT) ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
2
3
IMPORTANT SAFETY 
INSTRUCTIONS
3
READ ALL INSTRUCTIONS BEFORE USE
3
WARNING
6
CAUTION
7
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
7
Product Features
11 INSTALLATION
11
Before Installing
12
Choosing the Proper Location
14
Removing/Assembling Handles
15
Removing/Assembling Doors and Drawers
20
Connecting Refrigerator to Water Supply
22
Leveling and Door Alignment
23
Turning on the Power
24 OPERATION
24
Before Use
25
Control Panel
26
Sabbath Mode
26
Automatic Icemaker
27
Storing Food
28
Crisper Drawers
30
Glide‘N’Serve
30
Refrigerator Shelves
31
Door Bins
31
Durabase
32 SMART FUNCTIONS
32
LG ThinQ Application
32
Smart DiagnosisTM Feature
33 MAINTENANCE
33
Cleaning
33
Water Filter
38 TROUBLESHOOTING
38
FAQs
39
Before Calling for Service
47 LIMITED WARRANTY
47
USA
51
Canada


--- PAGE 3 (TEXT) ---
3
IMPORTANT SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS
ENGLISH
IMPORTANT SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS
READ ALL INSTRUCTIONS BEFORE USE
Safety Messages
Your safety and the safety of others are very important.
We have provided many important safety messages in this manual and on your appliance. Always read and 
follow all safety messages.
All safety messages will tell you what the potential hazard is, tell you how to reduce the chance of injury, 
and tell you what may happen if the instructions are not followed.
WARNING
WARNING
• To reduce the risk of explosion, fire, death, electric shock, scalding or injury to persons when using this 
product, follow basic precautions, including the following:
Installation
• To reduce the risk of injury to persons, adhere to all industry recommended safety procedures including 
the use of long-sleeved gloves and safety glasses.
• Never attempt to operate this appliance if it is damaged, malfunctioning, partially disassembled, or has 
missing or broken parts, including a damaged cord or plug.
• Only connect this product to a dedicated grounded electrical outlet rated for use with this product (115 
V, 60 Hz, AC only). It is the user’s responsibility to replace a standard 2-prong wall outlet with a standard 
3-prong wall outlet.
• Do not use an outlet that can be turned off with a switch. Do not use an extension cord.
• The appliance must be positioned for easy access to a power source.
• When moving the refrigerator, be careful not to roll over or damage the power cord.
• Contact an authorized service center when installing or relocating the refrigerator.
• Do not, under any circumstances, cut or remove the third (ground) prong from the power cord.
• Keep packing materials out of the reach of children. Packaging material can be dangerous for children. 
There is a risk of suffocation.
• Do not install the refrigerator in a damp or dusty place where insulation on electrical parts may 
deteriorate.
• Do not place the refrigerator in direct sunlight or expose it to the heat from heating appliances such as 
stoves or heaters.
This is the safety alert symbol.
This symbol alerts you to potential hazards that can kill or injure you and others. All safety messages 
will follow the safety alert symbol and either the word WARNING or CAUTION.
These words mean:
WARNING
You may be killed or seriously injured if you do not follow instructions.
CAUTION
You may be injured or cause damage to the product if you do not follow instructions.


--- PAGE 4 (TEXT) ---
4
IMPORTANT SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS
• Do not bend or pinch the power cord excessively or place heavy objects on it.
• When positioning the appliance, ensure the supply cord is not trapped or damaged.
• Do not locate multiple portable socket-outlets or portable power supplies at the rear of the appliance.
Operation
• This appliance is intended to be used in household and similar applications such as:
- staff kitchen areas in shops, offices and other working environments;
- farm houses and by clients in hotels, motels and other residential type environments;
- bed and breakfast type environments;
- catering and similar non-retail applications.
• This appliance is not for use in portable or mobile installations, such as marine or RV uses, where it will 
be in motion while operating.
• This appliance is not intended for use by persons (including children) with reduced physical, sensory or 
mental capabilities, or lack of experience and knowledge, unless they have been given supervision or 
instruction concerning use of the appliance by a person responsible for their safety.
• This product is not to be used for special purposes such as the storage of medicine or test materials or 
for use on ships, etc.
• DO NOT allow children to climb, stand, or hang on the refrigerator doors or on the shelves in the 
refrigerator. They could damage the refrigerator and seriously injure themselves.
• Do not allow children to climb into the refrigerator. They could be trapped and suffocated.
• Children should be supervised to ensure that they do not play with the refrigerator.
• Keep fingers out of pinch point areas; clearances between the doors and cabinets are necessarily small. 
Be careful closing doors when children are nearby.
• Do not touch frozen food or the metal parts in the freezer compartment with wet or damp hands. Doing 
so may cause frostbite.
• Do not refreeze frozen food that has thawed completely. Doing so may result in a serious health hazard.
• Do not use an adapter plug or plug the power plug into a multi-outlet extension cord.
• If the supply cord is damaged, it must be replaced by the manufacturer or its service agent or a similarly 
qualified person in order to avoid a hazard.
• Do not operate the refrigerator or touch the power cord with wet hands.
• Do not modify or extend the power cord.
• Do not use an uncertified power outlet. Do not plug the appliance into a damaged wall outlet.
• Do not put hands, feet or other objects into the air vents or bottom of the refrigerator. Doing so could 
result in personal injury or electric shock.
• In the event of a gas leak (propane/LPG), ensure the area is adequately ventilated and contact an 
authorized service center before resuming use. Do not touch the refrigerator or power cord of the 
refrigerator.
• Disconnect the power cord immediately and contact an authorized service center if there is a strange 
noise, odor, or smoke coming from the appliance.
• Do not use any fuse (such as copper, steel wire, etc.) other than a standard fuse.
• Do not put animals inside the appliance.
• Do not place heavy or fragile objects, liquid filled containers, combustible substances, or flammable 
objects (such as candles and lamps) on the appliance.
• If connected to a circuit protected by fuses, use time delay fuse.
• Keep ventilation openings, in the appliance enclosure or in the built-in structure, clear of obstruction.
• Do not use mechanical devices or other means to accelerate the defrosting process, other than those 
recommended by the manufacturer.


--- PAGE 5 (TEXT) ---
5
IMPORTANT SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS
ENGLISH
• Do not use electrical appliances inside the food storage compartments of the appliance, unless they are 
of the type recommended by the manufacturer.
• Do not store explosive substances such as aerosol cans with a flammable propellant in this appliance.
• Do not damage the refrigerant circuit.
• This appliance incorporates an earth connection for functional purposes.
• Connect to potable water supply only.
- If connected to a water supply, connect to a potable water supply only.
• Fill with potable water only.
- If using an icemaker or dispenser water tank, make sure to fill it with potable water only.
Maintenance
• Do not use a hair dryer to dry the inside of the refrigerator.
• Do not light a candle to remove odors in the refrigerator.
• In the event of a refrigerant leak, move flammable objects away from the refrigerator. Ensure the area is 
adequately ventilated and contact an authorized service center.
• Keep flammable materials and vapors, such as gasoline, away from the refrigerator.
• Unplug the power plug before cleaning or repairing the refrigerator.
• The refrigerator and freezer compartment lights are interior LED lighting, and service should be 
performed by a qualified technician.
• Unplug the power plug immediately in the event of a blackout or thunderstorm.
• Turn the power off if water or dust penetrates into the refrigerator. Call a service agent.
• Do not store glass containers or soda in the freezer compartment. Contents may expand when frozen, 
break the container and cause injury.
• Do not store, disassemble or repair the appliance yourself or allow unqualified personnel to do so.
Disposal
• Risk of child entrapment. Junked or abandoned refrigerators are dangerous, even if they are sitting for 
only a few days. When disposing of the refrigerator, remove the packing materials from the door or take 
off the doors but leave the shelves in place so that children may not easily climb inside.
• If disposing of a refrigerator, make sure the refrigerant and insulation foam are removed for proper 
disposal by a qualified servicer. If you release the refrigerant or throw away the insulation foam, you 
may be fined or imprisoned in accordance with the relevant environmental law. Insulation foam contains 
flammable blowing gas.
• When discarding the appliance, remove the door gasket while leaving the shelves and bins in place, and 
keep children away from the appliance.
Grounding Instructions
• Improper connection of the equipment-grounding conductor can result in a risk of electric shock. Check 
with a qualified electrician or service personnel if you are in doubt whether the appliance is properly 
grounded. Do not modify the plug provided with the appliance; if it will not fit the outlet, have a proper 
outlet installed by a qualified electrician.
• Have a certified electrician check the wall outlet and wiring for proper grounding.
• Never unplug the appliance by pulling on the power cord. Always grip the plug firmly and pull straight 
out from the outlet. Failure to do so may damage the power cord, resulting in a risk of fire and electric 
shock.


--- PAGE 6 (TEXT) ---
6
IMPORTANT SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS
SAVE THESE INSTRUCTIONS
Risk of Fire and Flammable Materials
CAUTION
CAUTION
• To reduce the risk of minor or moderate injury to persons, malfunction, or damage to the product or 
property when using this product, follow basic precautions, including the following:
Installation
• Do not install the refrigerator where there may be a danger of the unit falling.
• The refrigerator must be properly installed in accordance with the Installation Instructions.
Operation
• Do not use aerosols near the refrigerator.
• This appliance is intended to be used only in domestic and similar applications.
• Do not strike or apply excessive force to any glass surface. Do not touch glass surfaces if they are 
cracked or broken. You may be injured.
• Do not overfill or pack items too tightly into door bins. Doing so may cause damage to the bin or 
personal injury if items are removed with excessive force.
Maintenance
• Do not use strong detergents like wax or thinners for cleaning. Clean with a soft cloth.
• Remove foreign objects (such as dust and water) off the prongs of the power plug and contact areas. Do 
not use a wet or damp cloth when cleaning the plug.
• Do not spray water directly on the inside or outside of the refrigerator.
• Do not clean glass shelves or covers with warm water when they are cold. They may break if exposed to 
sudden temperature changes.
This symbol alerts you to flammable materials that can ignite and cause a fire if you do not 
take care.
This appliance contains a small amount of isobutane refrigerant (R600a), which is combustible. 
When transporting and installing the appliance, care should be taken to ensure that no parts 
of the refrigerating circuit are damaged. Refrigerant squirting out of the pipes could ignite or 
cause an eye injury. If a leak is detected, avoid any naked flames or potential sources of 
ignition and air out the room in which the appliance is standing for several minutes.
In order to avoid the creation of a flammable gas air mixture if a leak in the refrigerating 
circuit occurs, the size of the room in which the appliance may be sited depends on the 
amount of refrigerant used. The room must be 10.8 square feet (1 square meter) in size for 
every 8g of R600a refrigerant inside the appliance. The amount of refrigerant in your 
particular appliance is shown on the identification plate inside the appliance. Never start up an 
appliance showing any signs of damage. If in doubt, consult your dealer.


--- PAGE 7 (TEXT) ---
7
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
ENGLISH
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
Product Features
The images in this guide may be different from the actual components and accessories, which are subject 
to change by the manufacturer without prior notice for product improvement purposes.
Exterior
† This feature is only available on some models.
a Refrigerator
Fresh food compartment
b Handle
Opens and closes the refrigerator door.
c Door Button†
Opens the Door-in-Door compartment.
d InstaView Door-in-Door†
The InstaView Door-in-Door compartment allows for easy access to commonly used food items.
e LED Light
LED lights up when the freezer door is opened.
f Freezer
Frozen food compartment


--- PAGE 8 (TEXT) ---
8
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
Interior
† This feature is only available on some models.
Standard Door: LFCC22426*/LRFCS29D6*/LRFCC23D6*/LF29T6000*
InstaView Door-in-Door: LFCS27596*/LFCC23596*


--- PAGE 9 (TEXT) ---
9
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
ENGLISH
a Control panel
Sets the refrigerator and freezer temperatures.
b LED Interior Lighting
Lights up the inside of the refrigerator.
c Water Filter†
Purifies water. Replace the water filter every six months. See the Replacing the Water Filter section in 
this manual for details.
d Door Mullion
Prevents the cold air in the refrigerator from escaping when the doors are closed.
CAUTION
• To reduce the risk of scratching the door or breaking the center door mullion, make sure that the folding 
door mullion is folded in before closing the left-hand door.
• The door alarm will sound every 30 seconds if the door remains open longer than one minute.
e Fixed Door Bin
Stores chilled food or drinks.
f Auto-Closing Hinge†
The refrigerator doors and freezer drawers close automatically when pushed slightly. (The door only 
closes automatically when it is open at an angle of less than 30°.)
g Automatic Icemaker (Freezer)†
Produces ice automatically.
h Ice Bin†
Stores ice from the freezer icemaker.
i Durabase and Durabase Divider
Provides storage for large frozen food items.
j Door-in-Door Case
A convenient storage area for frequently-used items that require easy access.
k Adjustable Refrigerator Shelf
The refrigerator shelves are adjustable to meet individual storage needs.
l Humidity Controlled Crisper†
Helps vegetables and fruit to stay crisp and controls humidity.
m Glide'N'Serve
Stores food items at a different temperature than the regular refrigerator area.
n Pullout Drawer
Provides extra storage within the freezer compartment.
Product Specifications
The appearance and specifications listed in this manual may vary due to constant product improvements.
Electrical requirements: 115 V, 60 Hz
Min. / Max. water pressure: 20 - 120 psi (138 - 827 kPa)


--- PAGE 10 (TEXT) ---
10
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
Model
Description
Net weight
LFCC22426*
Counter-depth, French door refrigerator, bottom freezer
240 lb (109 kg)
LFCS27596*
Standard-depth, Door-in-Door French door refrigerator, bottom freezer
295 lb (134 kg)
LFCC23596*
Counter-depth, Door-in-Door French door refrigerator, bottom freezer
278 lb (126 kg)
LRFCS29D6*
Standard-depth, French door refrigerator, bottom freezer
256 lb (116 kg)
LRFCC23D6*
Counter-depth, French door refrigerator, bottom freezer
234 lb (106 kg)
LF29T6000*
Standard-depth, French door refrigerator, bottom freezer
256 lb (116 kg)


--- PAGE 11 (TEXT) ---
11
INSTALLATION
ENGLISH
INSTALLATION
Before Installing
Installation Overview
Please read the following installation instructions first after purchasing this product or transporting it to 
another location.
a Unpacking the Refrigerator
b Choosing the Proper Location
c Disassembling/Assembling
d Connecting the Water Line
e Leveling and Door Alignment
WARNING
• Connect to potable water supply only.


--- PAGE 12 (TEXT) ---
12
INSTALLATION
Unpacking the Refrigerator
WARNING
• Use two or more people to move and install the 
refrigerator. Failure to do so can result in back 
injury or other injury.
• The refrigerator is heavy. Protect the floor when 
moving the refrigerator for cleaning or service. 
Always pull the refrigerator straight out when 
moving it. Do not wiggle or walk the refrigerator 
when trying to move it, as floor damage could 
occur.
• Keep flammable materials and vapors, such as 
gasoline, away from the refrigerator. Failure to 
do so can result in fire, explosion, or death.
NOTE
• Remove tape and any temporary labels from 
your refrigerator before using. Do not remove 
any warning labels, the model and serial number 
label, or the Tech Sheet that is located under the 
front of the refrigerator.
• To remove any remaining tape or glue, rub the 
area briskly with your thumb. Tape or glue 
residue can also be easily removed by rubbing a 
small amount of liquid dish soap over the 
adhesive with your fingers. Wipe with warm 
water and dry.
• Do not use sharp instruments, rubbing alcohol, 
flammable fluids, or abrasive cleaners to remove 
tape or glue. These products can damage the 
surface of your refrigerator.
• Reinstall or adjust shelves as needed. 
Refrigerator shelves are installed in the shipping 
position. Reinstall shelves according to your 
individual storage needs.
Choosing the Proper 
Location
Water
The refrigerator must be located where a water 
supply can be connected for the automatic 
icemaker.
NOTE
• The water pressure must be 20 - 120 psi (138 - 
827 kPa). If the refrigerator is installed in an area 
with low water pressure (below 20 psi or 138 
kPa), you can install a booster pump to 
compensate for the low pressure.
Electricity
Use an individual, grounded outlet:115 Volts, 60 
Hz, AC, 15 amps minimum.
WARNING
• Do not overload house wiring and cause a fire 
hazard by plugging in multiple appliances in the 
same outlet with the refrigerator.
• To reduce the risk of electric shock, do not install 
the refrigerator in a wet or damp area.
Flooring
To avoid noise and vibration, the unit must be 
installed and leveled on a solidly constructed floor. 
If required, adjust the leveling legs to compensate 
for the unevenness of the floor.
NOTE
• Installing on carpeting, soft tile surfaces, a 
platform or weakly supported structure is not 
recommended.
Ambient Temperature
Install this appliance in an area where the 
temperature is between 55 °F (13 °C) and 110 °F 
(43 °C).
If the temperature around the appliance is too low 
or high, cooling ability may be adversely affected.
The internal temperatures could be affected by the 
location of the appliance, the ambient 
temperature, the frequency of door opening and 
other factors.


--- PAGE 13 (TEXT) ---
13
INSTALLATION
ENGLISH
Dimensions and Clearances
• Check the dimensions of the appliance and the installation path to ensure there is sufficient room to 
move the refrigerator through doors or narrow openings.
• If an opening is too narrow to fit the refrigerator through, remove the refrigerator doors. See Removing/ 
Assembling the Doors and Drawers in this manual.
• The installation location chosen for the refrigerator should allow space behind the unit for connections 
and airflow and space in front to open the doors and drawers.
• Too small of a distance from adjacent items may result in lowered freezing capability and increased 
electricity consumption charges. Allow at least 24 inches (610 mm) in front of the refrigerator to open the 
doors, and at least 2 inches (50.8 mm) between the back of the refrigerator and the wall.
-
Dimension/Clearance
LRFCS29D6*
LF29T6000*
LFCS27596*
LFCC23596*
LFCC22426*
LRFCC23D6*
A
Depth without Handle
33 3/4" (857 
mm)
32 3/8" (822 
mm)
28 3/4" (728 
mm)
B
Width
35 3/4" (908 
mm)
35 3/4" (908 
mm)
35 3/4" (908 
mm)
C
Height to Top of Case
68 1/2" (1737 
mm)
68 1/2" (1737 
mm)
68 1/2" (1737 
mm)
D
Height to Top of Hinge
69 3/4" (1772 
mm)
69 3/4" (1772 
mm)
69 3/4" (1772 
mm)
E
Back Clearance
2" (50 mm)
2" (50 mm)
2" (50 mm)
F
Depth without Door
29 7/8'' (759 
mm)
28 1/2" (724 
mm)
24 3/4" (628 
mm)
G
Depth with Handle
36 1/4" (921 
mm)
34 7/8˝ (886 
mm)
31 1/4˝ (792 
mm)
H
Depth (Total with Freezer Drawer 
Open)
57 5/8" (1461 
mm)
56 1/4˝ (1426 
mm)
48 1/2" (1232 
mm)
I
Depth (Total with Door Open 90°)
48 5/8'' (1234 
mm)
47 1/8" (1197 
mm)
43 3/8" (1103 
mm)


--- PAGE 14 (TEXT) ---
14
INSTALLATION
Removing/Assembling 
Handles
These instructions are for models which ship with 
the handles assembled. For models shipped with 
the handles disassembled, follow the instructions 
included in the handle package.
• Tools Needed
- Units shipped with disassembled handles:
3/32" and 1/4" Allen wrenches only
- Units shipped with assembled handles:
3/32", 1/8" and 1/4" Allen wrenches
When moving the refrigerator through a narrow 
opening, removing the doors is preferred. If you 
must remove the handles, be very careful not to 
scratch the doors.
The appearance of the handles may vary from 
what is shown.
CAUTION
• When assembling or disassembling the 
refrigerator handles, grasp the handle firmly to 
avoid dropping it.
• Do not swing the handle into nearby people or 
animals.
• Make sure that the set screws are in place and 
the handle footprints at the ends of the handles 
are aligned correctly over the mounting 
fasteners on the doors. The set screws should be 
loose enough to allow the handle footprints to 
slide down into place over the mounting 
fasteners on the door.
• Make sure that there is not a gap between the 
door and handle after assembling the handle.
Removing Refrigerator Handles
1 
Loosen the set screws a with a 3/32 in. Allen 
wrench and remove the handle.
2 
If needed, loosen the mounting fasteners b 
that connect the refrigerator door and handle 
using a 1/4 in. Allen wrench, and remove the 
mounting fasteners.
Assembling Refrigerator Handles
1 
If needed, reassemble the mounting 
fasteners a on the door with a 1/4 in. Allen 
wrench.
2 
Place the handle on the door by fitting the 
handle footprints over the mounting 
fasteners and tightening the set screws b 
with a 3/32 in. Allen wrench.
Removing Freezer Drawer Handles
1 
Loosen the set screws a located on the lower 
side of the handle with a 3/32 in. Allen wrench 
and remove the handle.
• For models shipped with the handles 
assembled, use a 1/8 in. Allen wrench.
2 
Loosen the mounting fasteners b with a 1/4 
in. Allen wrench, and remove the mounting 
fasteners.
Assembling Freezer Drawer 
Handles
1 
Assemble the mounting fasteners a at both 
ends of the handle with a 1/4 in. Allen wrench.


--- PAGE 15 (TEXT) ---
15
INSTALLATION
ENGLISH
2 
Place the handle on the door by fitting the 
handle footprints over the mounting 
fasteners and tightening the set screws b 
with a 3/32 in. Allen wrench.
• For models shipped with the handles 
assembled, use a 1/8 in. Allen wrench.
Removing/Assembling 
Doors and Drawers
If the entrance door is too narrow for the 
refrigerator to pass through, remove the 
refrigerator doors and move the refrigerator 
sideways through the doorway.
WARNING
• Use two or more people to remove and install 
the refrigerator doors and freezer drawer.
• Disconnect the electrical supply to the 
refrigerator before installing.
• Do not put hands, feet or other objects into the 
air vents or bottom of the refrigerator.
• Be careful when handling the hinge and hinge 
lever.
• Remove food and bins before detaching the 
doors and drawer.
• Do not hold the handle when removing or 
replacing the doors and drawer as the handle 
may come off.
• Tools Needed
- Phillips screwdriver
- Flat-head screwdriver
Removing the Left Refrigerator 
Door
NOTE
• The number of wire harnesses may vary 
depending on the model.
• Ground wire is only present on some models.
1 
Remove the screw a from the hinge cover at 
the top of the refrigerator. Lift the hook (not 
visible), located at the bottom of the front side 
of the cover b with a flat-head screwdriver.
2 
Disconnect all wire harnesses c. Unscrew the 
ground wire d. Remove the cover.
3 
Rotate the hinge lever e counterclockwise. 
Lift the top hinge f free of the hinge lever 
latch g .
CAUTION
• When lifting the hinge free of the latch, be 
careful that the door does not fall forward.
4 
Lift the door from the middle hinge pin and 
remove the door.


--- PAGE 16 (TEXT) ---
16
INSTALLATION
CAUTION
• Place the door, inside facing up, on a 
nonscratching surface.
Assembling the Left Refrigerator 
Door
CAUTION
• Install the left refrigerator door after the right 
door is installed.
NOTE
• The number of wire harnesses may vary 
depending on the model.
• Ground wire is only present on some models.
1 
Make sure that the plastic sleeve is inserted in 
the bottom of the door. Install the refrigerator 
door onto the middle hinge.
2 
Fit the hinge a over the hinge lever latch b 
and slot it into place. Rotate the lever c 
clockwise and fasten the hinge.
3 
Connect all the wire harnesses d and the 
ground screw e.
4 
Place the hinge cover f in place. Insert and 
tighten the cover screw g.
Removing the Right Refrigerator 
Door
1 
Remove the top hinge cover screw a. Lift the 
hook (not visible), located at the bottom of the 
front side of the cover b, with a flat-head 
screwdriver.


--- PAGE 17 (TEXT) ---
17
INSTALLATION
ENGLISH
2 
Detach all the wire harnesses c.
3 
Rotate the hinge lever d clockwise. Lift the 
top hinge e free of the hinge lever latch f.
CAUTION
• When lifting the hinge free of the latch, be 
careful that the door does not fall forward.
4 
Lift the door from the middle hinge pin and 
remove the door.
CAUTION
• Place the door, inside facing up, on a 
nonscratching surface.
Assembling the Right Refrigerator 
Door
CAUTION
• Install the right-side door first.
NOTE
• The number of wire harnesses may vary 
depending on the model.
• Ground wire is only present on some models.
1 
Make sure that the plastic sleeve is inserted in 
the bottom of the door. Lower the door onto 
the middle hinge pin as shown in the figure.
2 
Fit the hinge a over the hinge lever latch b 
and slot it into place. Rotate the lever c 
counterclockwise to secure the hinge.
3 
Connect the wire harnesses d.


--- PAGE 18 (TEXT) ---
18
INSTALLATION
4 
Place the cover e in its place. Insert and 
tighten the cover screw f .
Removing Freezer Drawers
WARNING
• Use two or more people to remove and install 
the refrigerator doors and freezer drawer.
• Be careful of sharp hinges on both sides of the 
drawer.
• When you lay the drawer down, be careful not to 
damage the floor.
• Do not sit or stand on the freezer drawer.
• To prevent accidents, keep children and pets 
away from the drawer. Do not leave the drawer 
open. If the Durabase® storage bin is removed 
from the freezer drawer, there is sufficient space 
for a small child or pet to crawl inside.
NOTE
• For models with two freezer drawers, remove 
the second freezer drawer in the same way.
1 
Pull the drawer open to full extension.
2 
Gently lift and pull out the ice bin.
3 
Lift the front of the drawer up, then pull it 
straight out.
4 
Remove the Durabase basket from the rails. 
Remove the screws from the rails at both 
ends.
5 
Grip both sides of the drawer and pull it up to 
remove it from the rails.
CAUTION
• Do not hold the handle when removing or 
replacing the drawer. The handle may come off, 
causing personal injury.


--- PAGE 19 (TEXT) ---
19
INSTALLATION
ENGLISH
6 
Hold both rails and push them in 
simultaneously.
Assembling Freezer Drawers
NOTE
• For models with two freezer drawers, assemble 
the second freezer drawer in the same way.
1 
Pull out both rails simultaneously, until they 
are fully extended.
2 
Grasp the drawer on each side and hook the 
drawer supports into the rail tabs located on 
both sides.
CAUTION
• Do not hold the handle when removing or 
replacing the drawer. The handle may come off, 
causing personal injury.
3 
Lower the door into its final position and 
insert the screws in the rails on both sides.
4 
Insert the drawer into the frame, and push 
the drawer back until it clicks into place.
5 
Replace the ice bin in the drawer. Insert the 
Durabase basket in the rail assembly.


--- PAGE 20 (TEXT) ---
20
INSTALLATION
Connecting Refrigerator to 
Water Supply
Before Beginning
These instructions assume you have an existing 
water supply connection for the refrigerator. If 
necessary, call a qualified plumber to install a 
water supply line for the refrigerator.
• Turn the icemaker OFF if the refrigerator will be 
used before the water line is connected.
• Do not install the icemaker tubing in areas 
where the ambient temperatures fall below 
freezing.
WARNING
• Connect to potable water supply only.
CAUTION
• To prevent burns and product damage, only 
connect the refrigerator water line to a cold 
water supply.
• Wear eye protection during installation to 
prevent injury.
Water Pressure
You will need a cold water supply.
Water Pressure
• Models with water filter:
- 20 - 120 psi (138 - 827 kPa)
• Where reverse osmosis water filtration 
system is connected to a cold water supply:
- 40 - 60 psi minimum to reverse osmosis 
system (2.8 kgf/cm2 - 4.2 kgf/cm2, or less than 
2 - 3 seconds to fill a cup of 7 oz capacity)
If the water pressure from the reverse osmosis 
system is less than 20 psi or 138 kPa or 1.4 kgf/cm2 
(takes more than 4 seconds to fill a cup of 7 oz or 
198 cc capacity):
• Check to see if the sediment filter in the reverse 
osmosis system is blocked. Replace the filter if 
necessary.
• Allow the storage tank on the reverse osmosis 
system to refill after heavy usage.
• If the water pressure remains low, call a 
licensed, qualified plumber.
• All installations must be in accordance with local 
plumbing code requirements.
Supplies Needed
• Copper or PEX Tubing, ¼ in. outer diameter, to 
connect the refrigerator to the water supply. Be 
sure both ends of the tubing are cut square. To 
determine how much tubing you need, measure 
the distance from the water valve on the back of 
the refrigerator to the water supply pipe. Then, 
add 8 feet (2.4 m). Be sure there is sufficient 
extra tubing (about 8 feet [2.4 m] coiled into 3 
turns of about 10 in. [25 cm] diameter) to allow 
the refrigerator to move out from the wall after 
installation.
• ½ in. or adjustable wrench.
• Flat-blade and Phillips screwdrivers.
• Two ¼ in. outer diameter compression nuts 
and 2 ferrules (sleeves) to connect the copper 
tubing to the shutoff valve and the refrigerator 
water valve. If you are using a PEX water line kit, 
it may already have the required fittings at either 
end.
• If your existing copper water line has a flared 
fitting at the end, purchase an adapter (available 
at plumbing supply stores) to connect the water 
line to the refrigerator OR cut off the flared 
fitting with a tube cutter and use a compression 
fitting.
NOTE
• The hookup line cannot be white, plastic tubing. 
Licensed plumbers must use only copper tubing 


--- PAGE 21 (TEXT) ---
21
INSTALLATION
ENGLISH
(NDA tubing #49595 or #49599) or Cross Link 
Polyethylene (PEX) tubing.
• Be sure there is sufficient extra tubing (about 8 
ft. coiled into three turns of about 10 in. 
diameter) to allow the refrigerator to move out 
from the wall after installation.
Connecting Water Line to 
Refrigerator
1 
Connect the tubing to the shutoff valve.
• Place the compression nut and ferrule 
(sleeve) onto the end of the copper tubing 
and connect it to the shutoff valve. If you 
are using PEX, the tubing may already have 
the required fittings at either end. Make 
sure the tubing is fully inserted into the 
valve. Tighten the compression nut 
securely.
a Packing Nut
b Shutoff Valve
c Compression Nut
d Ferrule (sleeve)
2 
Flush out the tubing into a bucket.
• Flush out the tubing coming from the home 
water supply until the water is clear. Shut 
the water off at the water valve after about 
one quart of water has been flushed 
through the tubing.
NOTE
• Before making the connection to the 
refrigerator, be sure that the refrigerator power 
cord is not plugged into the wall outlet.
3 
Remove the flexible plastic cap from the water 
valve on the refrigerator.
4 
Place the compression nut and ferrule (sleeve) 
onto the end of the tubing as shown. If you 
are using a PEX connection kit, it may already 
have the required fittings.
5 
Insert the end of the copper or PEX tubing 
into the connection as far as possible. While 
holding the tubing, tighten the fitting.
a Tubing Clamp
b ¼ in. Tubing
c ¼ in. Compression Nut
d Ferrule (sleeve)
e Refrigerator Connection
6 
Turn the water on at the shutoff valve.
• Tighten any connections that leak.
CAUTION
• Check to see if leaks occur at the water line 
connections.
• Make sure the house water valve is fully open. If 
it is not open completely, the icemaker and 
dispenser may not work properly.


--- PAGE 22 (TEXT) ---
22
INSTALLATION
Leveling and Door 
Alignment
Leveling
The refrigerator has two front leveling legs. Adjust 
the legs to alter the tilt from front-to-back or side-
to side. If the refrigerator seems unsteady, or the 
doors do not close easily, adjust the refrigerator’s 
tilt using the instructions below.
1 
Turn the leveling leg to the left to raise that 
side of the refrigerator or to the right to lower 
it. It may take several turns of the leveling leg 
to adjust the tilt of the refrigerator.
NOTE
• A flare nut wrench works best, but an open-end 
wrench will suffice. Do not over-tighten.
2 
Open both doors and check to make sure that 
they close easily. If the doors do not close 
easily, tilt the refrigerator slightly more to the 
rear by turning both leveling legs to the left. It 
may take several more turns, and be sure to 
turn both leveling legs the same amount.
Door Alignment
The door alignment method may differ depending 
on the model.
Refrigerator Type A
Both the left and right refrigerator doors have an 
adjustable nut, located on the bottom hinge, to 
raise and lower them to align properly.
If the space between the doors is uneven even 
after the door bins are filled, follow the 
instructions below to align the doors evenly:
Use the wrench (included with the owner's 
manual) to turn the nut in the door hinge to adjust 
the height. Turn the nut to the right to raise the 
door or to the left to lower it.
Refrigerator Type B
Left Refrigerator Door
The left refrigerator door has an adjustable nut, 
located on the bottom hinge, to raise and lower 
the door for proper alignment.
If the space between the doors is uneven, follow 
the instructions below to align the left door:
Use the wrench (included with the owner's 
manual) to turn the nut in the door hinge to adjust 
the height. Turn the nut to the right to raise the 
door or to the left to lower it.
Right Refrigerator Door
The right refrigerator door does not have an 
adjustable nut.
If the space between the doors is uneven, follow 
the instructions below to align the right door:
1 
Lift up both the inner and outer door sections 
of the right door to raise them at the middle 
hinge. (It may be easier to lift them with the 
doors open.)


--- PAGE 23 (TEXT) ---
23
INSTALLATION
ENGLISH
2 
While the door is lifted, have an assistant 
insert the snap ring on the middle hinge. The 
snap ring may differ depending on the model.
• Snap ring type A
Use pliers to insert the snap ring on the 
middle hinge of the inner door section as 
shown. Insert additional snap rings until the 
right door is aligned.
• Snap ring type B
Insert only one snap ring on the middle 
hinge of the inner door section as shown.
- If a snap ring is already inserted on the 
middle hinge, remove the snap ring 
before inserting a new snap ring.
CAUTION
• The door is heavy. To avoid injury, use two or 
more people to lift and align the refrigerator 
door.
• Small parts are a swallowing hazard for small 
children. Keep snap rings out of the reach of 
children.
• Do not insert the snap ring on the hinge of the 
outer door section.
NOTE
• The number of freezer drawers may vary 
depending on the model.
Turning on the Power
• After installing, plug the refrigerator’s power 
cord into a 3-prong grounded outlet and push 
the refrigerator into the final position.
CAUTION
• Connect to a rated power outlet.
• Have a certified electrician check the wall outlet 
and wiring for proper grounding.
• Do not damage or cut off the ground terminal of 
the power plug.
Position the Refrigerator
• If the refrigerator is connected to water, arrange 
the coil of tubing so that it does not vibrate 
against the back of the refrigerator or against 
the wall. Push the refrigerator back toward the 
wall, leaving adequate clearance.


--- PAGE 24 (TEXT) ---
24
OPERATION
OPERATION
Before Use
Checklist
Clean the refrigerator.
Clean the refrigerator thoroughly and wipe off all dust that accumulated 
during shipping.
CAUTION
• Do not scratch the refrigerator with a sharp object or use a detergent that 
contains alcohol, a flammable liquid or an abrasive when removing any 
tape or adhesive from the refrigerator. Remove adhesive residue by wiping 
it off with your thumb or dish detergent.
• Do not peel off the model or serial number label or the technical 
information on the rear surface of the refrigerator.
Open refrigerator doors and freezer drawers to ventilate the 
interior.
The inside of the refrigerator may smell like plastic at first. Remove any 
adhesive tape from inside the refrigerator and open the refrigerator doors 
and the freezer drawers for ventilation.
Connect the power supply.
Check if the power supply is connected before use.
Turn off the icemaker.
Turn off the icemaker if the refrigerator is not yet connected to the water 
supply.
NOTE
• The icemaker water valve may buzz if the icemaker is turned on while the 
refrigerator is not connected to the water supply.
Wait for the refrigerator to cool.
After the refrigerator is connected to power, it will take time to cool. The 
duration depends on the model and ambient conditions. In summer, it may 
take longer for the interior to cool down. Keep the refrigerator doors closed 
to allow it to cool down quickly.
• Don’t add food before the appliance has cooled. Food may spoil or odors 
may linger.
• To reach the set temperature quickly, keep the refrigerator doors closed 
after placing food inside.
The refrigerator makes a loud noise after initial operation.
This is normal. The volume will decrease as the temperature decreases.


--- PAGE 25 (TEXT) ---
25
OPERATION
ENGLISH
Control Panel
Depending on the model, some of the following functions may not be available.
The actual control panel may differ from model to model.
Control Panel Features
† This feature is only available on some models.
Type A
Type B
a Freezer
Indicates the set temperature of the freezer compartment in Celsius (°C) or Fahrenheit (°F). The default 
freezer temperature is 0°F (-18 °C). Press the Freezer button repeatedly to select a new set 
temperature from - 7 °F to 5 °F (-23 °C to -15 °C).
b Refrigerator
Indicates the set temperature of the refrigerator compartment in Celsius (°C) or Fahrenheit (°F). The 
default refrigerator temperature is 37 °F (3 °C). Press the Refrigerator button repeatedly to select a 
new set temperature from 33 °F to 43 °F (1 °C to 7 °C).
NOTE
• To change the temperature mode from °F to °C (or vice versa) press and hold the Refrigerator and 
Freezer buttons simultaneously for approximately five seconds. The temperature indicator on the 
display window switches between Celsius and Fahrenheit.
• The displayed temperature is the target temperature, and not the actual temperature of the refrigerator. 
The actual refrigerator temperature depends on the food inside the refrigerator.
c Water Filter†
Replace the water filter when Replace lights up. After replacing the water filter, press and hold the 
Water Filter button for three seconds to turn the Replace light off. Replace the water filter 
approximately every six months.
d Ice Plus / Express Frz.
Models with automatic icemaker: This function increases both ice making and freezing capabilities.
Models without automatic icemaker: This function increases freezing capabilities.
Press the Ice Plus / Express Frz. button to illuminate the icon and activate the function for 24 hours. 
The function automatically shuts off after 24 hours. Stop the function manually by pressing the button 
once more.
NOTE
Display Mode (For Store Use Only)


--- PAGE 26 (TEXT) ---
26
OPERATION
NOTE
• The Display Mode disables all cooling in the refrigerator and freezer sections to conserve energy while 
on display in a retail store. When activated, OFF is displayed on the control panel and the display remains 
on for 20 seconds.
• To deactivate / activate:
- With either refrigerator door opened, press the Ice Plus / Express Frz. button 3 times consecutively 
while pressing the Refrigerator button. The control panel beeps and the temperature settings display 
to confirm that Display Mode is deactivated. Use the same procedure to activate Display Mode.
• When the refrigerator is in the Power Saving Mode, the display remains off until a door is opened or a 
button is pressed. Once on, the display remains on for 20 seconds.
Sabbath Mode
This feature is only available on some models.
Using the Sabbath Mode
Sabbath mode is used on the Jewish Sabbath and 
Holidays.
• To turn Sabbath mode on, touch the display to 
activate it, then press and hold the Freezer and 
Water Filter buttons for 3 seconds until sb 
appears in the display.
• To turn Sabbath mode off manually, press and 
hold the Freezer and Water Filter buttons for 3 
seconds.
NOTE
• Sabbath mode automatically turns off after 96 
hours.
• Once turned on, Sabbath mode is maintained 
even after a power outage.
• Selecting Sabbath mode automatically turns off 
the Alarm functions.
• The dispenser or InstaView is disabled in 
Sabbath Mode, on applicable models.
Automatic Icemaker
This feature is only available on some models.
WARNING
• DO NOT place fingers in the automatic icemaker 
when the refrigerator is plugged in.
• Avoid contact with any moving parts of the 
ejector mechanism or with the heater that 
releases the ice cubes.
Before Using the Freezer Icemaker
This feature is only available on some models.
The feature may vary depending on model 
purchased.
NOTE
• Throw away the first bin full of ice after 
installation. This is also necessary if the 
refrigerator has not been used for a long time.
• The icemaker begins producing ice 
approximately 48 hours after the appliance is 
initially installed.
• The sound of ice dropping into the ice bin is 
normal.
• If the ice bin is completely filled with ice, ice 
production will stop.
• The amount and shape of ice may vary according 
to the environment (ambient temperature 
around the appliance, frequency of the door 
being opened, amount of food stored in the 
appliance, water pressure, etc.).
• In the event of a power outage, throw away the 
ice stored in the ice bin.
Freezer Icemaker (Cubed Ice)
This feature is only available on some models.
a Feeler Arm
b Power Switch


--- PAGE 27 (TEXT) ---
27
OPERATION
ENGLISH
NOTE
• This automatic freezer icemaker produces 12 
cubes at a time, 50-110 pieces within a 24 hour 
period if conditions are favorable. This amount 
may vary according to the environment (ambient 
temperature around the appliance, frequency of 
the door being opened, amount of food stored 
in the appliance, etc.).
• Ice cubes that are stored in the ice bin for a 
long time may clump together and be difficult to 
separate. If this happens, empty the ice bin 
completely and clean it before reinstalling it.
Turning the Icemaker On/Off
To turn the automatic icemaker On/Off, press the 
power switch on the icemaker to the ON ( | ) or 
OFF (O) position.
Normal Sounds You May Hear
• Keeping the power turned on to the icemaker 
before the water line is connected can damage 
the icemaker.
• The icemaker water valve buzzes as the 
icemaker fills with water. If the icemaker power 
button is in the ON position, it will buzz even if it 
has not yet been hooked up to water. To stop the 
buzzing, press the icemaker power button to 
turn it off.
• You will hear the sound of ice dropping into the 
bin and water running in the pipes as the 
icemaker refills.
Preparing for Vacation
Set the icemaker power button to OFF and shut off 
the water supply to the refrigerator.
NOTE
• The ice bin should be emptied any time the 
icemaker power button is turned to the OFF 
position.
If the ambient temperature will drop below 
freezing, have a qualified technician drain the 
water supply system to prevent serious property 
damage due to flooding caused by ruptured water 
lines or connections.
Storing Food
NOTE
• If you are leaving home for a short period, like a 
short vacation, the refrigerator should be left on. 
Refrigerated foods that are able to be frozen will 
stay preserved longer if stored in the freezer.
• If you are leaving the refrigerator turned off for 
an extended period, remove all food and unplug 
the power cord. Clean the interior, and leave the 
door open to prevent fungi from growing in the 
refrigerator.
• If doors are opened or closed too often, warm 
air may penetrate the refrigerator and raise its 
temperature. This can increase the running costs 
of the unit.
Food Storage Tips
Wrap or store food in the refrigerator in airtight 
and moisture-proof material unless otherwise 
noted. This prevents food odor and taste transfer 
throughout the refrigerator. For dated products, 
check date code to ensure freshness.
CAUTION
• Do not overfill or pack items too tightly into door 
bins. Doing so may cause damage to the bin or 
personal injury if items are removed with 
excessive force.
• Do not store glass containers in the freezer. 
Contents may expand when frozen, break the 
container and cause injury.
How to Store Food
• Butter or Margarine
- Keep opened butter in covered dish or closed 
compartment. When storing an extra supply, 
wrap in freezer packaging and freeze.
• Cheese
- Store in original wrapping until used. Once 
opened, rewrap tightly in plastic wrap or 
aluminum foil.
• Milk
- Wipe milk cartons. For coldest milk, place 
containers on an interior shelf.
• Eggs
- Store in original carton on interior shelf, not on 
door shelf.


--- PAGE 28 (TEXT) ---
28
OPERATION
• Fruit
- Do not wash or hull fruit until it is ready to be 
used. Sort and keep fruit in original container 
in a crisper, or store in completely closed 
paper bag on refrigerator shelf.
• Leafy Vegetables
- Remove store wrapping, trim or tear off 
bruised and discolored areas, wash in cold 
water, and drain. Place in plastic bag or plastic 
container and store in crisper.
• Vegetables with skins (carrots, peppers)
- Place in plastic bags or plastic container and 
store in crisper.
• Fish
- Freeze fresh fish and shellfish if they are not 
being eaten the same day purchased. Eating 
fresh fish and shellfish the same day 
purchased is recommended.
• Leftovers
- Cover leftovers with plastic wrap or aluminum 
foil, or store in plastic containers with tight 
lids.
NOTE
• Do not store food with high moisture content 
towards the top of the refrigerator. The moisture 
could come into direct contact with the cold air 
and freeze.
• Wash food before storing it in the refrigerator. 
Vegetables should be washed, and food 
packaging should be wiped down to prevent 
adjacent foods from being contaminated.
• If the refrigerator is kept in a hot and humid 
place, frequent opening of the door or storing a 
lot of vegetables in the refrigerator may cause 
condensation to form. Wipe off the 
condensation with a clean cloth or a paper towel.
Storing Frozen Food
Check a freezer guide or a reliable cookbook for 
further information about preparing food for 
freezing or food storage times.
Freezing
Your freezer will not quick-freeze a large quantity 
of food. Do not put more unfrozen food into the 
freezer than will freeze within 24 hours (no more 
than 2 to 3 pounds of food per cubic foot of freezer 
space). Leave enough space in the freezer for air to 
circulate around packages. Be careful to leave 
enough room at the front so the door can close 
tightly.
Storage times will vary according to the quality 
and type of food, the type of packaging or wrap 
used (how airtight and moisture-proof) and the 
storage temperature. Ice crystals inside a sealed 
package are normal. This simply means that 
moisture in the food and air inside the package 
have condensed, creating ice crystals.
NOTE
• Allow hot foods to cool at room temperature for 
30 minutes, and then package and freeze. 
Cooling hot foods before freezing saves energy.
Packaging
Successful freezing depends on correct packaging. 
When you close and seal the package, it must not 
allow air or moisture in or out. If it does, you could 
have food odor and taste transfer throughout the 
refrigerator and could also dry out frozen food.
Packaging Recommendations
• Rigid plastic containers with tight-fitting lids
• Straight-sided canning/freezing jars
• Heavy-duty aluminum foil
• Plastic-coated paper
• Non-permeable plastic wraps
• Specified freezer-grade self-sealing plastic bags
Follow package or container instructions for 
proper freezing methods.
Do not use
• Bread wrappers
• Non-polyethylene plastic containers
• Containers without tight lids
• Wax paper or wax-coated freezer wrap
• Thin, semi-permeable wrap
Crisper Drawers
Using the Humidity Controlled 
Crispers
This feature is only available on some models.
The crispers provide fresher tasting fruit and 
vegetables by letting you easily control humidity 
inside the drawer.
You can control the amount of humidity in the 
moisture-sealed crispers by adjusting the control 
to any setting between Vegetables and Fruit.
• Vegetables keeps moist air in the crisper for 
best storage of fresh, leafy vegetables.


--- PAGE 29 (TEXT) ---
29
OPERATION
ENGLISH
• Fruit lets moist air out of the crisper for best 
storage of fruit.
Removing/Assembling the 
Humidity Controlled Crispers
1 
Open the doors completely and remove the 
contents of the Door-in-Door case. Lift up and 
pull out the Door-in-Door case.
NOTE
• The Door-in-Door feature is only available on 
some models.
2 
Pull out the crisper to full extension, lift the 
front up, and pull straight out.
3 
Lift the front of the cover up with both hands 
until it detaches from the back wall of the 
cabinet, then pull it out.
4 
To reassemble, insert the cover into the 
refrigerator with both hands and lower it onto 
the guides.
5 
Slightly tilt up the front of the crisper, insert it 
into the frame and push it back into place.
6 
Line up the tabs on the Door-in-Door case 
with the slots on the door and push down 
until it snaps into place.
NOTE
• The Door-in-Door feature is only available on 
some models.


--- PAGE 30 (TEXT) ---
30
OPERATION
Glide‘N’Serve
Using the Pantry Drawer
This drawer can be used for large party trays, deli 
items and beverages. This drawer should not be 
used to store vegetables that require high 
humidity.
CAUTION
• Do not place any items on the Pantry Drawer 
cover.
Detaching/Assembling the 
Glide‘N’Serve
1 
To remove the Glide‘N’Serve, pull out the 
drawer until it stops, lift the front up, and pull 
straight out.
2 
To assemble, slightly tilt up the front, insert 
the drawer into the frame and push it back 
into place.
Refrigerator Shelves
The shelves in the refrigerator are adjustable to 
meet individual storage needs.
Adjusting the shelves to fit items of different 
heights will make finding the exact item you want 
easier.
Detaching/Assembling Shelves
CAUTION
• Do not clean glass shelves with warm water 
while they are cold. Shelves may break if 
exposed to sudden temperature changes or 
impact.
1 
To detach a shelf, hold the adjoining shelf so 
that it does not move.
2 
Pull the two shelves apart in the middle and 
tilt up the front of the shelf you want to 
remove until it's free from the other shelf.
3 
Support the shelf from the bottom and lift it 
straight up.
4 
Pull the shelf out.


--- PAGE 31 (TEXT) ---
31
OPERATION
ENGLISH
5 
To assemble, tilt the front of the shelf up and 
guide the shelf hooks into the slots at a 
desired height.
6 
Lower the front of the shelf so that the hooks 
drop into the slots.
CAUTION
• Make sure that shelves are level from one side to 
the other. Failure to do so may result in the shelf 
falling or spilled food.
Door Bins
Detaching/Assembling Door Bins
The door bins are removable for easy cleaning and 
adjustment.
1 
To remove the bin, simply lift the bin up and 
pull straight out.
2 
To assemble the bin, slide it in above the 
desired support and push down until it snaps 
into place.
CAUTION
• Regularly detach and wash the storage bins and 
shelves; they can become easily contaminated 
by food.
• Do not apply excessive force while detaching or 
assembling the storage bins.
• Do not use the dishwasher to clean the storage 
bins and shelves.
Durabase
Using the Durabase
The Durabase divider allows you to organize the 
Durabase area into 2 sections. It can be adjusted 
from side to side to accommodate items of 
different sizes.
The Durabase may differ depending on the model.
WARNING
• If the Durabase divider is removed, there is 
enough open space for children or pets to crawl 
inside. To prevent accidental child and pet 
entrapment or suffocation risk, DO NOT allow 
children or pets to touch or go near the drawer.
CAUTION
• The front and back of the Durabase are labeled 
on the top. Make sure to install it so that the side 
with the rubber drawer stops on the top is 
toward the inside of the freezer.


--- PAGE 32 (TEXT) ---
32
SMART FUNCTIONS
SMART FUNCTIONS
LG ThinQ Application
This feature is only available on some models.
The LG ThinQ application allows you to 
communicate with the appliance using a 
smartphone.
Installing the LG ThinQ Application
Search for the LG ThinQ application from the 
Google Play Store or Apple App Store on a smart 
phone. Follow instructions to download and install 
the application.
LG ThinQ Application Feature
Smart DiagnosisTM
This function provides useful information for 
diagnosing and solving issues with the appliance 
based on the pattern of use.
NOTE
• This information is current at the time of 
publication. The application is subject to change 
for product improvement purposes without 
notice to users.
Smart DiagnosisTM Feature
This feature is only available on some models.
Use this feature to help you diagnose and solve 
problems with your appliance.
NOTE
• For reasons not attributable to LGE’s negligence, 
the service may not operate due to external 
factors such as, but not limited to, Wi-Fi 
unavailability, Wi-Fi disconnection, local app 
store policy, or app unavailability.
• The feature may be subject to change without 
prior notice and may have a different form 
depending on where you are located.
Using Audible Diagnosis to 
Diagnose Issues
Follow the instructions below to use the audible 
diagnosis method.
• Launch the LG ThinQ application and select the 
Smart Diagnosis feature in the menu. Follow 
the instructions for audible diagnosis provided 
in the LG ThinQ application.
1 
Open the right refrigerator door.
2 
Hold the mouthpiece of your phone in front of 
the speaker that is located on the right hinge 
of the refrigerator door.
3 
Press and hold the Freezer button for three 
seconds while continuing to hold your phone 
to the speaker.
4 
After you hear three beeps, release the 
Freezer button.
5 
Keep the phone in place until the tone 
transmission has finished. The display will 
count down the time. Once the countdown is 
over and the tones have stopped, the 
diagnosis will be displayed in the application.
NOTE
• For best results, do not move the phone while 
the tones are being transmitted.


--- PAGE 33 (TEXT) ---
33
MAINTENANCE
ENGLISH
MAINTENANCE
Cleaning
WARNING
• Use non-flammable cleaner. Failure to do so can 
result in fire, explosion, or death.
CAUTION
• Do not use an abrasive cloth or sponge when 
cleaning the interior and exterior of the 
refrigerator.
• Do not place your hand on the bottom surface of 
the refrigerator when opening and closing the 
doors.
General Cleaning Tips
• Both the refrigerator and freezer sections 
defrost automatically; however, clean both 
sections once a month to prevent odors.
• Wipe up spills immediately.
• Unplug the refrigerator or disconnect power 
before cleaning.
• Remove all removable parts, such as shelves.
• Use a clean sponge or soft cloth and a mild 
detergent in warm water. Do not use abrasive or 
harsh cleaners.
• Hand wash, rinse and dry all surfaces 
thoroughly.
Exterior
For products with black stainless steel exterior, 
spray glass cleaner on a clean microfiber cloth and 
rub in direction of grain. Do not spray glass 
cleaner directly at the display panel. Do not use 
harsh or abrasive cleaners.
For products with a standard stainless steel 
exterior, use a damp microfiber cloth and rub in 
the direction of the grain. Dry with a paper towel 
to avoid streaks. For stubborn stains and 
fingerprints, use a few drops of liquid dish soap in 
water, and rinse with hot water before drying. Do 
not use abrasive or harsh cleaners.
To clean products with a mirrored glass door, use 
the microfiber cloth that came with the product. To 
remove stains more easily, spray the cloth with a 
glass cleaner and wipe the surface.
Inside Walls
• Allow the freezer to warm up so the cloth will not 
stick.
To help remove odors, wash the inside of the 
refrigerator with a mixture of baking soda and 
warm water. Mix 2 tablespoons of baking soda to 1 
quart of water (26 g soda to 1 liter water.) Be sure 
the baking soda is completely dissolved so it does 
not scratch the surfaces of the refrigerator.
Door Liners and Gaskets
Use a clean sponge or soft cloth and a mild 
detergent in warm water. Do not use cleaning 
waxes, concentrated detergents, bleaches, or 
cleaners containing petroleum on plastic 
refrigerator parts.
Plastic Parts (Covers and Panels)
Use a clean sponge or soft cloth and a mild 
detergent in warm water. Do not use glass 
cleaners, abrasive cleansers, or flammable fluids. 
These can scratch or damage the material.
Condenser Coils
Use a vacuum cleaner with a brush or crevice 
attachment to clean the condenser cover and 
vents. Do not remove the panel covering the 
condenser coil area.
Water Filter
This feature is only available on some models.
Before Replacing the Water Filter


--- PAGE 34 (TEXT) ---
34
MAINTENANCE
WARNING
• To reduce the risk associated with choking, do 
not allow children under 3 years of age to have 
access to small parts during the installation of 
this product.
• To reduce the risk associated with the ingestion 
of contaminants, do not use with water that is 
microbiologically unsafe or of unknown quality 
without adequate disinfection before or after the 
system.
• Use of unauthorized water filters may result in 
product malfunction, water leakage or water 
quality issues, which will not be covered under 
the product warranty.
CAUTION
• Read and follow Use Instructions before 
installation and use of this system.
• Installation and use MUST comply with all state 
and local plumbing codes.
• Do not install if water pressure exceeds 120 psi 
(827 kPa). If your water pressure exceeds 80 psi, 
you must install a pressure limiting valve. 
Contact a plumber if uncertain how to check 
your water pressure.
• Do not install where water hammer conditions 
may occur. If water hammer conditions exist you 
must install a water hammer arrester. Contact a 
plumbing professional if you are uncertain how 
to check for this condition.
• Do not install on hot water supply lines. The 
maximum operating water temperature of this 
filter system is 100 8 (37.8 7).
• Protect filter from freezing. Drain filter when 
temperatures drop below 40 8 (4.4 7).
• The disposable filter cartridge MUST be replaced 
every 6 months, at the rated capacity or if a 
noticeable reduction in flow rate occurs.
• To protect it from freezing, remove filter 
cartridge when temperatures are expected to 
drop below 33 8 ( 0 7).
• Do not install systems in areas where ambient 
temperatures may go above 110 8 (43.3 7).
• Where a backflow prevention device is installed 
on a water system, a device for controlling 
pressure due to thermal expansion must be 
installed.
• Ensure all tubing and fittings are secure and free 
from leaks.
Replacing the Water Filter
• Replace the water filter:
- Approximately every six months.
- When the Replace Filter h icon or the 
indicator light turns on.
- When the water dispenser output decreases.
- When the rated gallons of water have been 
dispensed.
• To purchase a genuine replacement water filter:
- Visit your local dealer or distributor
- Search using "water filter" on lg.com
- Use replacement cartridge: LT1000P, 
LT1000P*, LT1000PC, LT1000PCS or 
ADQ747935**
1 
If the top shelf, located below the water filter, 
is in the highest position, it will need to be 
removed prior to replacing the water filter.
• To remove any shelf, tilt up the front of the 
shelf and lift it. Pull the shelf out.
2 
Pinch the sides to open the water filter cover.
3 
Pull the water filter downward and turn it 
counterclockwise before pulling it out.
• Make sure to rotate the filter down 
completely before pulling it out of the 
manifold hole.
NOTE
• Replacing the water filter causes a small amount 
of water (around 1 oz. or 25 cc) to drain.


--- PAGE 35 (TEXT) ---
35
MAINTENANCE
ENGLISH
• Wrap a cloth around the front end of the water 
filter cover to collect any leaking water. Hold the 
water filter upright, once it is removed, to 
prevent any remaining water from spilling out of 
the water filter.
4 
Replace with a new water filter.
• Take the new water filter out of its packing 
and remove the protective cover from the o-
rings. With the water filter tabs in the 
horizontal position, push the new water 
filter into the manifold hole and turn it 
clockwise until it stops.
5 
Close the water filter cover. The cover will click 
when closed correctly.
6 
After the water filter is replaced,
• Models with water dispenser: dispense 2.5 
gallons (10 liters) of water (flush for 
approximately 5 minutes) to remove 
trapped air and contaminants from the 
system.
NOTE
• Do not dispense the entire 2.5 gallon (10 liters) 
amount continuously. Press and release the 
dispenser pad for cycles of 30 seconds ON and 
60 seconds OFF.
• Models without water dispenser: dispose of 
the first full bin of ice produced.
7 
After changing the filter, press and hold the 
Water Filter button for three seconds to reset 
the indicator light.
CAUTION
• LG strongly recommends that you use LG-
authorized water filters to prevent water quality 
issues, water leakage and appliance 
malfunction.
• For further assistance, call:
- 1-800-243-0000 (USA)
- 1-888-542-2623 (Canada)


--- PAGE 36 (TEXT) ---
36
MAINTENANCE
Performance Data Sheet
Model: LT1000P, LT1000PC, LT1000PCS
NSF System Trade Name Code: MDJ64844601
The concentration of the indicated substances in water entering the system was reduced to a 
concentration less than or equal to the permissible limit for water leaving the system as specified in NSF/
ANSI Standard 42, Standard 53 and Standard 401.
System tested and certified by NSF International against NSF/ANSI Standard 42, Standard 53 and 
Standard 401 for the reduction of substances listed below.
Substance 
Reduction
Average 
Influent 
Challenge
NSF Specified 
Challenge 
Concentration
Avg % 
Reduction
Average 
Product Water 
Concentration
Max 
Permissible 
Product Water 
Concentration
NSF Reduction 
Requirements
Chlorine Taste and 
Odor
2.0 μg/L
2.0 μg/L± 10 %
>97.5 %
0.050 μg/L
N/A
2 50.00 %
Nominal Particulate 
Class I, , 2 0.5 to < 
1.0 μm
12,000,000 
pts/mL
At least 10,000 
particles/mL
99.80 %
24,000 pts/ml
N/A
2 85.00 %
Asbestos
180 MFL
107 to 108 MFL; 
fibers greater than 
10 μg/Lin length
>99.00 %
< 1 MFL
N/A
2 99.00 %
Atrazine
8.5 μg/L
9.0 μg/L ± 10 %
>94.10 %
0.500 μg/L
3.0 μg/L
NA
Benzene
15.0 μg/L
15.0 μg/L ± 10 %
>96.60 %
0.510 μg/L
5.0 μg/L
NA
Carbofuran
74.0 μg/L
80.0 μg/L ± 10 %
98.30 %
1.258 μg/L
40 μg/L
NA
Lindane
1.9 μg/L
2.0 μg/L ± 10 %
>99.00 %
0.019 μg/L
0.2 μg/L
NA
P-Dichlorobenzene
230.0 μg/L
225.0 μg/L ± 10 %
>99.80 %
0.460 μg/L
75.0 μg/L
NA
2,4-D
210.0 μg/L
210.0 μg/L ± 10 %
>99.90 %
0.210 μg/L
70.0 μg/L
NA
Lead pH @6.5
140.0 μg/L
150.0 μg/L ± 10 %
99.60 %
0.560 μg/L
10.0 μg/L
NA
Lead pH @8.5
150.0 μg/L
150.0 μg/L ± 10 %
>99.70 %
<0.500 μg/L
10.0 μg/L
NA
Mercury @ pH6.5
5.9 μg/L
6.0 μg/L ± 10 %
91.00 %
0.531 μg/L
2.0 μg/L
NA
Mercury @ pH8.5
5.6 μg/L
6.0 μg/L ± 10 %
92.5 %
0.420 μg/L
2.0 μg/L
NA
Cyst*
100,000 
cysts/L
Minimum 50,000 
cysts/L
>99.99 %
10 cysts/L
N/A
2 99.95 %
Atenolol
240 ng/L
200 ± 40 % ng/L
>95.50 %
10.80 ng/L
30 ng/L
NA
Carbamazepine
1600 ng/L
1400 ± 40 % ng/L
98.40 %
25.60 ng/L
200 ng/L
NA
DEET
1600 ng/L
1400 ± 40 % ng/L
97.10 %
46.40 ng/L
200 ng/L
NA
Trimethoprim
170 ng/L
140 ± 40 % ng/L
>96.80 %
5.44 ng/L
20 ng/L
NA
Linuron
160 ng/L
140 ± 40 % ng/L
>96.60 %
5.44 ng/L
20 ng/L
NA
Phenytoin
200 ng/L
200 ± 40 % ng/L
>94.80 %
10.40 ng/L
30 ng/L
NA
Ibuprofen
400 ng/L
400 ± 40 % ng/L
>94.50 %
22.00 ng/L
60 ng/L
NA
Naproxen
140 ng/L
140 ± 40 % ng/L
>96.10 %
5.46 ng/L
20 ng/L
NA
Estrone
120 ng/L
140 ± 40 % ng/L
>96.10 %
4.68 ng/L
20 ng/L
NA
Bisphenol A
2000 ng/L
2000 ± 40 % ng/L
>98.90 %
22.00 ng/L
300 ng/L
NA
Nonyl Phenol
1600 ng/L
1400 ± 40 % ng/L
>97.10 %
46.40 ng/L
200 ng/L
NA


--- PAGE 37 (TEXT) ---
37
MAINTENANCE
ENGLISH
* Based on the use of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts.
It is essential that the manufacturer’s recommended installation, maintenance and filter replacement 
requirements be carried out for the product to perform as advertised.
NOTE
• While the testing was performed under standard laboratory conditions, actual performance may vary.
For replacement filters, visit your local dealer or distributor or search under "water filters" on the lg.com 
website.
For further assistance, contact the LG Electronics Customer Information Center.
USA: 1-800-243-0000
Canada: 1-888-542-2623
LG is a trademark of LG Corp.
NSF is a trademark of NSF International.
Manufactured by LG Electronics, INC:
170, Sungsanpaechoungro, Seongsan-gu, Gyeongsangnam-do, THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Guidelines for Application / Water Supply Parameters
Service Flow
0.5 gpm (1.9 lpm)
Water Supply
Community or Private Well - Potable Water
Water Pressure
20 – 120 psi (138 – 827 kPa)
Water Temperature
33 °F – 100 °F (0.6 °C – 37.8 °C)
Capacity
200 gallons (757 liters)


--- PAGE 38 (TEXT) ---
38
TROUBLESHOOTING
TROUBLESHOOTING
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions
Q:
What are the best temperature settings for my refrigerator and freezer?
A:
The default setting for the refrigerator is 37° Fahrenheit (3° Celsius). The default setting for the 
freezer is 0° Fahrenheit (-18° Celsius). Adjust these settings as necessary to keep food at desired 
temperatures. Milk should be cold when stored on the inner shelf of the refrigerator. Ice cream 
should be firm and ice cubes should not melt in the freezer. To switch the display from Fahrenheit to 
Celsius, press and hold the Freezer and Refrigerator buttons until you hear a beep and the settings 
in the display change.
Q:
How do I set the refrigerator and freezer temperatures?
A:
Continually press the Refrigerator or Freezer button on the control panel until the desired 
temperature appears. The numbers will cycle from highest to lowest and then return to the highest 
again with continuous pressing.
Q:
Why do I hear a buzzing noise from my refrigerator periodically?
A:
This may happen if you do not have a water source attached to your refrigerator and the icemaker is 
turned on. If you do not have a water source attached to the back of the refrigerator you should turn 
the icemaker off.
Q:
Why does the icemaker tray look crooked?
A:
This is a normal part of the icemaker cycle. The icemaker tray may appear level or with a slight tilt. 
The change in position is to assist in the freezing process.
Q:
My refrigerator is powered on and the controls are working, but it’s not cooling and the display 
shows “OFF” (see below). What is wrong?
A:
The refrigerator is in Display Mode. The Display Mode disables all cooling in the refrigerator and 
freezer sections to conserve energy while on display in a retail store. When activated, OFF is displayed 
on the control panel and the display remains on for 20 seconds. With either refrigerator door opened, 
press the Ice Plus button 3 times consecutively while pressing the Refrigerator button. The control 
panel beeps and the temperature settings display to confirm that Display Mode is deactivated. Use 
the same procedure to activate Display Mode.
Q:
My refrigerator is on and is cooling, but none of the lights are on and the buttons don't work. 
The display shows "Sb".
A:
The Sabbath mode is activated. (Only included on some models.) To turn it off, see the Sabbath Mode 
section.


--- PAGE 39 (TEXT) ---
39
TROUBLESHOOTING
ENGLISH
Before Calling for Service
Review this section before calling for service; doing so will save you both time and money.
For detailed information or videos, visit www.lg.com for the troubleshooting page.
Cooling
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution
Refrigerator is not 
cooling or has no 
power.
The refrigerator control is set to OFF (some models).
• Turn the control ON. Refer to the Setting the Controls section for proper temperature 
settings.
Refrigerator is set to Demo Mode.
• Demo Mode allows the lights and control display to work normally while disabling cooling, 
to save energy while the refrigerator is on the showroom floor. See the FAQs section of 
this manual for instructions on how to disable Demo Mode.
Refrigerator is in the defrost cycle.
• During the defrost cycle, the temperature of each compartment may rise slightly. Wait 30 
minutes and confirm the proper temperature has been restored once the defrost cycle has 
completed.
Refrigerator was recently installed.
• It may take up to 24 hours for each compartment to reach the desired temperature.
Refrigerator was recently relocated.
• If the refrigerator was stored for a long period of time or moved on its side, it is necessary 
for the refrigerator to stand upright for 24 hours before connecting it to power.
Cooling system runs 
too much.
Refrigerator is replacing an older model.
• Modern refrigerators require more operating time but use less energy due to more 
efficient technology.
Refrigerator was recently plugged in or power restored.
• The refrigerator will take up to 24 hours to cool completely.
The door is opened often or a large amount of food / hot food was added.
• Adding food and opening the door warms the refrigerator, requiring the compressor to 
run longer in order to cool the refrigerator back down. In order to conserve energy, try to 
get everything you need out of the refrigerator at once, keep food organized so it is easy 
to find, and close the door as soon as the food is removed. (Refer to the Food Storage 
Guide.)
Doors are not closed completely.
• Firmly push the doors shut. If they will not shut all the way, the "Doors will not close 
correctly or pop open" section in Troubleshooting.
Refrigerator is installed in a hot location.
• The compressor will run longer under warm conditions. At normal room temperatures (70 
°F or 21 °C) expect your compressor to run about 40 % to 80 % of the time. Under warmer 
conditions, expect it to run even more often. The refrigerator should not be operated 
above 110 °F (43 °C).
Condenser / back cover is clogged.
• Use a vacuum cleaner with an attachment to clean the condenser cover and vents. Do not 
remove the panel covering the condenser coil area.
Interior moisture 
buildup.
Doors are opened often or for long periods of time.
• When the doors are opened often or for long periods of time, warm, humid air enters the 
compartment. This raises the temperature and moisture level within the compartment. To 
lessen the effect, reduce the frequency and duration of door openings.


--- PAGE 40 (TEXT) ---
40
TROUBLESHOOTING
Interior moisture 
buildup.
Doors are not closed correctly.
• See the "Doors will not close correctly or pop open" section.
Weather is humid.
• Humid weather allows additional moisture to enter the compartments when the doors are 
opened leading to condensation or frost. Maintaining a reasonable level of humidity in the 
home will help to control the amount of moisture that can enter the compartments.
Defrost cycle recently completed.
• During the defrost cycle, the temperature of each compartment may rise slightly and 
condensation may form on the back wall. Wait 30 minutes and confirm that the proper 
temperature has been restored once the defrost cycle has completed.
Food is not packaged correctly.
• Food stored uncovered or unwrapped, and damp containers can lead to moisture 
accumulation within each compartment. Wipe all containers dry and store food in sealed 
packaging to prevent condensation and frost.
Food is freezing in 
the refrigerator 
compartment.
Food with high water content was placed near an air vent.
• Rearrange items with high water content away from air vents.
Refrigerator temperature control is set incorrectly.
• If the temperature is too cold, adjust the control one increment at a time and wait for the 
temperature to stabilize. Refer to the Control Panel section for more information.
Refrigerator is installed in a cold location.
• When the refrigerator is operated in temperature below 41 °F (5 °C), food can freeze in the 
refrigerator compartment. The refrigerator should not be operated in temperature below 
55 °F (13 °C).
Refrigerator or 
Freezer section is too 
cold.
Incorrect temperature control settings.
• If the temperature is too cold, adjust the control one increment at a time and wait for the 
temperature to stabilize. Refer to the Control Panel for more information.
Frost or ice crystals 
form on frozen food 
(inside of sealed 
package).
Condensation from food with a high water content has frozen inside of the food 
package.
• This is normal for food items with a high water content.
Food has been left in the freezer for a long period of time.
• Do not store food items with high water content in the freezer for a long period of time.
Frost or ice crystals 
form on frozen food 
(outside of package).
Door is opened frequently or for long periods of time.
• When the doors are opened often or for long periods of time, warm, humid air enters the 
compartment. This raises the temperature and moisture level within the compartment. 
Increased moisture will lead to frost and condensation. To lessen the effect, reduce the 
frequency and duration of door openings.
Door is not closing properly.
• Refer to the "Doors will not close correctly or pop open" section in the Troubleshooting.
Refrigerator or 
Freezer section is too 
warm.
Refrigerator was recently installed.
• It may take up to 24 hours for each compartment to reach the desired temperature.
The air vents are blocked. Cold air circulates from the freezer to the fresh food section 
and back again through air vents in the wall dividing the two sections.
• Locate air vents by using your hand to sense airflow and move all packages that block 
vents and restrict airflow. Rearrange items to allow air to flow throughout the 
compartment.
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution


--- PAGE 41 (TEXT) ---
41
TROUBLESHOOTING
ENGLISH
Ice
Refrigerator or 
Freezer section is too 
warm.
Doors are opened often or for long periods of time.
• When the doors are opened often or for long periods of time, warm, humid air enters the 
compartment. This raises the temperature and moisture level within the compartment. To 
lessen the effect, reduce the frequency and duration of door openings.
Unit is installed in a hot location.
• The refrigerator should not be operated in temperatures above 110 °F (43 °C).
A large amount of food or hot food was added to either compartment.
• Adding food warms the compartment requiring the cooling system to run. Allowing hot 
food to cool to room temperature before putting it in the refrigerator will reduce this 
effect.
Doors are not closed correctly.
• See the "Doors will not close correctly or pop open" section in the Troubleshooting.
Temperature control is not set correctly.
• If the temperature is too warm, adjust the control one increment at a time and wait for the 
temperature to stabilize.
Defrost cycle has recently completed.
• During the defrost cycle, the temperature of each compartment may rise slightly and 
condensation may form on the back wall. Wait 30 minutes and confirm the proper 
temperature has been restored once the defrost cycle has completed.
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution
Icemaker is not 
making enough ice.
Demand exceeds ice production capacity.
• Refer to the Automatic Icemaker section for ice production capacity to check the amount 
of ice produced in a 24 hour period.
House water supply is not connected, valve is not turned on fully, or valve is clogged.
• Connect the refrigerator to a cold water supply with adequate pressure and turn the water 
shutoff valve fully open. If the problem persists, it may be necessary to contact a plumber.
Water filter has been exhausted.
• Replacing the water filter is recommended:
- Approximately every six months.
- When the water filter indicator turns on.
- When the water dispenser output decreases.
- When the ice cubes are smaller than normal.
Low house water supply pressure.
• The water pressure must be between 20 and 120 psi (138 and 827 kPa) on models without 
a water filter and between 40 and 120 psi (276 and 827 kPa) on models with a water filter. 
If the problem persists, it may be necessary to contact a plumber.
Reverse osmosis filtration system is used.
• Reverse osmosis filtration systems can reduce the water pressure below the minimum 
amount and result in icemaker issues. (Refer to the Connecting the Water Line section.)
Tubing connecting refrigerator to house supply valve is kinked.
• The tubing can kink when the refrigerator is moved during installation or cleaning 
resulting in reduced water flow. Straighten or repair the water supply line and arrange it to 
prevent future kinks.
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution


--- PAGE 42 (TEXT) ---
42
TROUBLESHOOTING
Icemaker is not 
making enough ice.
Doors are opened often or for long periods of time.
• If the doors of the unit are opened often, ambient air will warm the refrigerator which will 
prevent the unit from maintaining the set temperature. Lowering the refrigerator 
temperature can help, as well as not opening the doors as frequently.
Doors are not closed completely.
• If the doors are not properly closed, ice production will be affected. See the "Doors will not 
close correctly or pop open" section in Parts & Features Troubleshooting for more 
information.
The temperature setting for the freezer is too warm.
• The recommended temperature for the freezer compartment for normal ice production is 
0 °F (-18 °C). If the freezer temperature is warmer, ice production will be affected.
Icemaker is not 
making ice
Refrigerator was recently installed or icemaker recently connected.
• It may take up to 24 hours for each compartment to reach the desired temperature and 
for the icemaker to begin making ice.
Icemaker is not turned on.
• Locate the icemaker ON/OFF and confirm that it is turned on.
The ice detecting sensor is obstructed.
• Foreign substances or frost on the ice-detecting sensor can interrupt ice production. Make 
sure that the sensor area is clean at all times for proper operation.
The refrigerator is not connected to a water supply or the supply shutoff valve is not 
turned on.
• Connect the refrigerator to the water supply and turn the water shutoff valve fully open.
Icemaker shutoff (arm or sensor) obstructed.
• If your icemaker is equipped with an ice shutoff arm, make sure that the arm moves freely. 
If your icemaker is equipped with the electronic ice shutoff sensor, make sure that there is 
a clear path between the two sensors.
Reverse osmosis water filtration system is connected to your cold water supply.
• Reverse osmosis filtration systems can reduce the water pressure below the minimum 
amount and result in icemaker issues. (Refer to the Connecting the Water Line section.)
Ice has bad taste or 
odor.
Water supply contains minerals such as sulfur.
• A water filter may need to be installed to eliminate taste and odor problems. NOTE: In 
some cases, a filter may not help. It may not be possible to remove all minerals/odor/taste 
in all water supplies.
Icemaker was recently installed.
• Ice that has been stored for too long will shrink, become cloudy, and may develop a stale 
taste. Throw away old ice and make a new supply.
The food has not been stored properly in either compartment.
• Rewrap the food. Odors may migrate to the ice if food is not wrapped properly.
The interior of the refrigerator needs to be cleaned.
• See the Maintenance section for more information.
The ice storage bin needs to be cleaned.
• Empty and wash the bin (discard old cubes). Make sure that the bin is completely dry 
before reinstalling it.
Icemaker is making 
too much ice.
Icemaker shutoff (arm/ sensor) is obstructed.
• Empty the ice bin. If your icemaker is equipped with an ice shutoff arm, make sure that the 
arm moves freely. If your icemaker is equipped with the electronic ice shutoff sensor, 
make sure that there is a clear path between the two sensors. Reinstall the ice bin and wait 
24 hours to confirm proper operation.
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution


--- PAGE 43 (TEXT) ---
43
TROUBLESHOOTING
ENGLISH
Water
Ice is not dispensing.
Unable to hear the sound of ice coming out?
• In the control panel, select the modes for cubed ice and crushed ice alternately to dispense 
the ice.
Doors are not closed completely.
• Ice will not dispense if any of the refrigerator doors are left open.
Infrequent use of the dispenser.
• Infrequent use of the ice dispenser will cause the cubes to stick together over time, which 
will prevent them from properly dispensing. Check the ice bin for ice cubes clumping/
sticking together. If they are, break up the ice cubes to allow for proper operation.
The delivery chute is clogged with frost or ice fragments.
• Eliminate the frost or ice fragments by removing the ice bin and clearing the chute with a 
plastic utensil. Dispensing cubed ice can also help prevent frost or ice fragment buildup.
The dispenser display is locked.
• Press and hold the Lock button for three seconds to unlock the control panel and 
dispenser.
Ice bin is empty.
• It may take up to 24 hours for each compartment to reach the desired temperature and 
for the icemaker to begin making ice. Make sure that the shutoff (arm/sensor) is not 
obstructed. Once the ice supply in the bin has been completely exhausted, it may take up 
to 90 minutes before additional ice is available, and approximately 24 hours to completely 
refill the bin.
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution
Water is dispensing 
slowly.
Water filter has been exhausted.
• Replacing the water filter is recommended:
- Approximately every six months.
- When the water filter indicator turns on.
- When the water dispenser output decreases.
- When the ice cubes are smaller than normal.
Reverse osmosis filtration system is used.
• Reverse osmosis filtration systems can reduce the water pressure below the minimum 
amount and result in icemaker issues. If the problem persists, it may be necessary to 
contact a plumber.
Low house water supply pressure.
• The water pressure must be between 20 and 120 psi on models without a water filter and 
between 40 and 120 psi on models with a water filter. If the problem persists, it may be 
necessary to contact a plumber.
Water is not 
dispensing.
New installation or water line recently connected.
• Dispense 2.5 gallons (10 liters) of water (flush for approximately 5 minutes) to remove 
trapped air and contaminants from the system. Do not dispense the entire 2.5 gallon (10 
liters) amount continuously. Depress and release the dispenser pad for cycles of 30 
seconds ON and 60 seconds OFF.
The dispenser panel is locked.
• Press and hold the Lock button for three seconds to unlock the control panel and 
dispenser.
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution


--- PAGE 44 (TEXT) ---
44
TROUBLESHOOTING
Water is not 
dispensing.
The dispenser is not set for water dispensing.
• The dispenser can be set for ice or water. Make certain that the control panel is set for the 
proper operation. Press the Water button on the control panel to dispense water.
Refrigerator or freezer doors are not closed properly.
• Water will not dispense if any of the refrigerator doors are left open.
Water filter has been recently removed or replaced.
• After the water filter is replaced, dispense 2.5 gallons (10 liters) of water (flush for 
approximately five minutes) to remove trapped air and contaminants from the system. Do 
not dispense the entire 2.5 gallon (10 liters) amount continuously. Depress and release the 
dispenser pad for cycles of 30 seconds ON and 60 seconds OFF.
Tubing connecting refrigerator to house supply valve is kinked.
• The tubing can kink when the refrigerator is moved during installation or cleaning. 
Resulting in reduced water flow. Straighten or repair the water supply line and arrange it 
to prevent future kinks.
The house water supply is not connected, the valve is not turned on fully, or the valve is 
clogged.
• Connect the refrigerator to the water supply and turn the water shutoff valve fully open. If 
the problem persists, it may be necessary to contact a plumber.
Dispensing warm 
water.
Refrigerator was recently installed.
• Allow 24 hours after installation for the water storage tank to cool completely.
The water dispenser has been used recently and the storage tank was exhausted.
• Depending on your specific model, the water storage capacity will range from 
approximately 20 to 30 oz (600 to 900 ml).
Dispenser has not been used for several hours.
• If the dispenser has not been used for several hours, the first glass dispensed may be 
warm. Discard the first 10 oz (300 ml).
Refrigerator is connected to the hot water supply.
• Make sure that the refrigerator is connected to a cold water pipe.
WARNING
• Connecting the refrigerator to a hot water line may damage the icemaker.
Water has bad taste 
or odor.
Water supply contains minerals such as sulfur.
• A water filter may need to be installed to eliminate taste and odor problems.
Water filter has been exhausted.
• Replacing the water filter is recommended:
- Approximately every six months.
- When the water filter indicator turns on.
- When the water dispenser output decreases.
- When the ice cubes are smaller than normal.
Refrigerator was recently installed.
• Dispense 2.5 gallons (10 liters) of water (flush for approximately 5 minutes) to remove 
trapped air and contaminants from the system. Do not dispense the entire 2.5 gallon (10 
liters) amount continuously. Depress and release the dispenser pad for cycles of 30 
seconds ON and 60 seconds OFF.
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution


--- PAGE 45 (TEXT) ---
45
TROUBLESHOOTING
ENGLISH
Parts & Features
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution
Doors will not close 
correctly or pop 
open.
Food packages are blocking the door open.
• Rearrange food containers to clear the door and door shelves.
Ice bin, crisper cover, pans, shelves, door bins, or baskets are out of position.
• Push bins all the way in and put crisper cover, pans, shelves and baskets into their correct 
positions. See the Operation section for more information.
The doors were removed during product installation and not properly replaced.
• Remove and replace the doors according to the Removing and Replacing Refrigerator 
Handles and Doors section.
Refrigerator is not leveled properly.
• See Door Alignment in the Refrigeration Installation section to level refrigerator.
Doors are difficult to 
open.
The gaskets are dirty or sticky.
• Clean the gaskets and the surfaces that they touch. Rub a thin coat of appliance polish or 
kitchen wax on the gaskets after cleaning.
Door was recently closed.
• When you open the door, warmer air enters the refrigerator. As the warm air cools, it can 
create a vacuum. If the door is hard to open, wait one minute to allow the air pressure to 
equalize, then see if it opens more easily.
Refrigerator wobbles 
or seems unstable
Leveling legs are not adjusted properly.
• Refer to the Leveling and Door Alignment section.
Floor is not level.
• It may be necessary to add shims under the leveling legs or rollers to complete installation.
Lights do not work.
LED interior lighting failure.
• The refrigerator compartment lamp is LED interior lighting, and service should be 
performed by a qualified technician.
LED door lighting failure (on some models).
• The proximity sensor is located in the center of the door, and may not sense activity to the 
side of the door. The proximity sensor must detect a person before it will operate the LED 
Lighting.
If the flooring material is highly reflective, or if there are highly reflective objects in front of 
the product, the proximity sensor which controls the LED door lighting may not function 
properly.
• It may take 30 seconds to work normally after the refrigerator is initially installed.
Refrigerator has an 
unusual odor.
The Air Filter may need to be set to the MAX setting or replaced.
• Set the Air Filter to the MAX setting. If the odor does not go away within 24 hours, the filter 
may need to be replaced. See the Replacing the Air Filter section for replacement 
instructions.
The interior of the 
refrigerator is 
covered with dust or 
soot.
The refrigerator is located near a fire source, such as a fireplace, chimney, or candle.
• Make sure that the refrigerator is not located near a fire source, such as a fireplace, 
chimney or candle.


--- PAGE 46 (TEXT) ---
46
TROUBLESHOOTING
Noises
Problem
Possible Cause & Solution
Clicking
The defrost control will click when the automatic defrost cycle begins and ends. The 
thermostat control (or refrigerator control on some models) will also click when cycling 
on and off.
• Normal Operation
Rattling
Rattling noises may come from the flow of refrigerant, the water line on the back of 
the unit, or items stored on top of or around the refrigerator.
• Normal Operation
Refrigerator is not resting solidly on the floor.
• Floor is weak or uneven or leveling legs need to be adjusted. See the Leveling and Door 
Alignment section.
Refrigerator with linear compressor was jarred while running.
• Normal Operation
Whooshing
Evaporator fan motor is circulating air through the refrigerator and freezer 
compartments.
• Normal Operation
Air is being forced over the condenser by the condenser fan.
• Normal Operation
Gurgling
Refrigerant flowing through the cooling system.
• Normal Operation
Popping
Contraction and expansion of the inside walls due to changes in temperature.
• Normal Operation
Sizzling
Water dripping on the defrost heater during a defrost cycle.
• Normal Operation
Vibrating
If the side or back of the refrigerator is touching a cabinet or wall, some of the normal 
vibrations may make an audible sound.
• To eliminate the noise, make sure that the sides and back cannot vibrate against any wall 
or cabinet.
Dripping
Water running into the drain pan during the defrost cycle.
• Normal Operation
Pulsating or high- 
pitched sound
Your refrigerator is designed to run more efficiently to keep your food items at the 
desired temperature. The high efficiency compressor may cause your new refrigerator 
to run longer than your old one, but it is still more energy efficient than previous 
models. While the refrigerator is running, it is normal to hear a pulsating or high-
pitched sound.
• Normal Operation


--- PAGE 47 (TEXT) ---
47
LIMITED WARRANTY
ENGLISH
LIMITED WARRANTY
USA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
ARBITRATION NOTICE: THIS LIMITED WARRANTY CONTAINS AN ARBITRATION PROVISION THAT 
REQUIRES YOU AND LG ELECTRONICS (“LG”) TO RESOLVE DISPUTES BY BINDING ARBITRATION 
INSTEAD OF IN COURT, UNLESS YOU CHOOSE TO OPT OUT. IN ARBITRATION, CLASS ACTIONS AND 
JURY TRIALS ARE NOT PERMITTED. PLEASE SEE THE SECTION TITLED “PROCEDURE FOR RESOLVING 
DISPUTES” BELOW.
Should your LG Refrigerator ("Product") fail due to a defect in materials or workmanship under normal and 
proper use, during the warranty period set forth below, LG will, at its option, repair or replace the Product. 
This limited warranty is valid only to the original retail purchaser of the Product ("You") and applies only 
when purchased lawfully and used within the United States including U.S. Territories.
• Replacement Products and parts are warranted for the remaining portion of the original warranty period 
or ninety (90) days, whichever is greater.
• Replacement Products and parts may be new, reconditioned, refurbished, or otherwise factory 
remanufactured.
• Replaced Product or part(s) will be the property of LG.
• Proof of original retail purchase specifying the Product model and date of purchase is required to obtain 
warranty service under this limited warranty.
EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF 
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ON THE PRODUCT IS LIMITED IN 
DURATION TO THE DURATION OF THE ABOVE LIMITED WARRANTY. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES 
SHALL LG OR ITS U.S. DISTRIBUTORS/DEALERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, 
CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST 
GOODWILL, LOST REVENUES OR PROFITS, WORK STOPPAGE, IMPAIRMENT OF OTHER GOODS, COST OF 
REMOVAL AND REINSTALLATION OF THE PRODUCT, LOSS OF USE, OR ANY OTHER DAMAGES WHETHER 
BASED IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE. LG’S TOTAL LIABILITY, IF ANY, SHALL NOT EXCEED THE 
PURCHASE PRICE PAID BY YOU FOR THE PRODUCT.
SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES OR LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE 
EXCLUSIONS OR LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS LIMITED WARRANTY GIVES YOU 
SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS AND YOU MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM STATE TO STATE.
WARRANTY PERIOD
Refrigerator/Freezer
Sealed System 
(Condenser, Dryer, 
Connecting Tube and 
Evaporator)
Compressor
One (1) year from the 
date of original retail 
purchase, or from the 
date of delivery as per 
applicable law
Five (5) years from the 
date of original retail 
purchase, or from the 
date of delivery as per 
applicable law
Five (5) years from the 
date of original retail 
purchase, or from the 
date of delivery as per 
applicable law
Linear / Inverter 
Compressor Only : Parts 
Only for years 6-10 from 
the date of original retail 
purchase, or from the 
date of delivery as per 
applicable law (You will 
be charged for labor.)
Parts and Labor (internal/ 
functional parts only)
Parts and Labor
Parts and Labor


--- PAGE 48 (TEXT) ---
48
LIMITED WARRANTY
THIS LIMITED WARRANTY DOES NOT COVER:
• Service trips to deliver, pick up, or install, educate how to operate, correct wiring, or correct 
unauthorized repairs.
• Damage or failure of the Product to perform during power failures and interrupted or inadequate 
electrical service.
• Damage or failure of the Product caused by leaky or broken water pipes, frozen water pipes, restricted 
drain lines, inadequate or interrupted water supply or inadequate supply of air.
• Damage or failure of the Product resulting from operating the Product in a corrosive atmosphere or 
contrary to the Product owner’s manual.
• Damage or failure of the Product caused by accidents, pests and vermin, lightning, wind, fire, floods, acts 
of nature, or any other causes beyond the control of LG.
• Damage or failure of the Product caused by unauthorized modification or alteration, or if the Product is 
used for other than the intended purpose, or any water leakage where the Product was not properly 
installed.
• Damage or failure of the Product caused by incorrect electrical current, voltage, or plumbing codes.
• Damage or failure of the Product caused by transportation, storage, and/or handling, including 
scratches, dents, chips, and/or other damage to the finish of the Product, unless such damage is 
reported within one (1) week of delivery.
• Damage or failure of the Product resulting from misuse, abuse, improper installation, repair, or 
maintenance. Improper repair includes the use of parts not authorized by LG. Improper installation or 
maintenance includes installation or maintenance contrary to the Product owner’s manual.
• Damage or failure of the Product caused by the use of parts, components, accessories, consumable 
cleaning products, or any other products or services that were not authorized by LG.
• Damage or missing items to any display or open box Product.
• Refurbished Product or any Product sold “As Is”, “Where Is”, “With all Faults”, or similar disclaimer.
• Products with original serial numbers that have been removed, altered, or cannot be readily determined.
• Increases in utility costs and additional utility expenses.
• Any noises associated with normal operation.
• Products used for other than normal and proper household use (e.g., commercial or industrial use) or 
contrary to the Product owner’s manual.
• Costs associated with removal and reinstallation of the Product for repairs, or the removal and 
reinstallation of the Product if it is installed in an inaccessible location or not installed in accordance with 
the Product Owner's manual.
• Accessories, removable components, or consumable parts (e.g. Shelves, door bins, drawers, water/air 
filters, racks, light bulbs, batteries, etc., as applicable), except for internal/functional parts covered under 
this limited warranty.
The cost of repair or replacement under these excluded circumstances shall be borne by You.
TO OBTAIN WARRANTY SERVICE AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Call 1-800-243-0000 and select the appropriate option from the menu.
Or visit our website at http://www.lg.com
Or by mail: LG Electronics Customer Service P.O. Box 240007 Huntsville, AL 35813 ATTN: CIC
PROCEDURE FOR RESOLVING DISPUTES:
ALL DISPUTES BETWEEN YOU AND LG ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING IN ANY WAY TO THIS LIMITED 
WARRANTY OR THE PRODUCT SHALL BE RESOLVED EXCLUSIVELY THROUGH BINDING ARBITRATION, AND 
NOT IN A COURT OF GENERAL JURISDICTION. BINDING ARBITRATION MEANS THAT YOU AND LG ARE EACH 
WAIVING THE RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL AND TO BRING OR PARTICIPATE IN A CLASS ACTION.
Definitions. For the purposes of this section, references to “LG” mean LG Electronics U.S.A., Inc., its 
parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, and each of their officers, directors, employees, agents, beneficiaries, 


--- PAGE 49 (TEXT) ---
49
LIMITED WARRANTY
ENGLISH
predecessors in interest, successors, assigns and suppliers; references to “dispute” or “claim” shall include 
any dispute, claim or controversy of any kind whatsoever (whether based in contract, tort, statute, 
regulation, ordinance, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal or equitable theory) arising out of or 
relating in any way to the sale, condition or performance of the product or this Limited Warranty.
Notice of Dispute. In the event you intend to commence an arbitration proceeding, you must first notify 
LG in writing at least 30 days in advance of initiating the arbitration by sending a letter to LG at LG 
Electronics, USA, Inc. Attn: Legal Department- Arbitration 111 Sylvan Avenue, Englewood Cliffs, NJ 07632. 
You and LG agree to engage in good faith discussions in an attempt to amicably resolve your claim. The 
notice must provide your name, address, and telephone number; identify the product that is the subject of 
the claim; and describe the nature of the claim and the relief being sought. If you and LG are unable to 
resolve the dispute within 30 days, either party may proceed to file a claim for arbitration.
Agreement to Binding Arbitration and Class Action Waiver. Upon failure to resolve the dispute during 
the 30 day period after sending written notice to LG, you and LG agree to resolve any claims between us 
only by binding arbitration on an individual basis, unless you opt out as provided below. Any dispute 
between you and LG shall not be combined or consolidated with a dispute involving any other person’s or 
entity’s product or claim. More specifically, without limitation of the foregoing, any dispute between you 
and LG shall not under any circumstances proceed as part of a class or representative action. Instead of 
arbitration, either party may bring an individual action in small claims court, but that small claims court 
action may not be brought on a class or representative basis.
Arbitration Rules and Procedures. To begin arbitration of a claim, either you or LG must make a written 
demand for arbitration. The arbitration will be administered by the American Arbitration Association 
(“AAA”) and will be conducted before a single arbitrator under the AAA’s Consumer Arbitration Rules that 
are in effect at the time the arbitration is initiated (referred to as the “AAA Rules”) and under the 
procedures set forth in this section. The AAA Rules are available online at www.adr.org/consumer. Send a 
copy of your written demand for arbitration, as well as a copy of this provision, to the AAA in the manner 
described in the AAA Rules. You must also send a copy of your written demand to LG at LG Electronics, 
USA, Inc. Attn: Legal Department- Arbitration 111 Sylvan Avenue, Englewood Cliffs, NJ 07632. If there is a 
conflict between the AAA Rules and the rules set forth in this section, the rules set forth in this section will 
govern. This arbitration provision is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act. Judgment may be entered on 
the arbitrator’s award in any court of competent jurisdiction. All issues are for the arbitrator to decide, 
except that issues relating to the scope and enforceability of the arbitration provision and to the 
arbitrability of the dispute are for the court to decide. The arbitrator is bound by the terms of this 
provision.
Governing Law. The law of the state of your residence shall govern this Limited Warranty and any 
disputes between us except to the extent that such law is preempted by or inconsistent with applicable 
federal law.
Fees/Costs. You do not need to pay any fee to begin an arbitration. Upon receipt of your written demand 
for arbitration, LG will promptly pay all arbitration filing fees to the AAA unless you seek more than $25,000 
in damages, in which case the payment of these fees will be governed by the AAA Rules. Except as 
otherwise provided for herein, LG will pay all AAA filing, administration and arbitrator fees for any 
arbitration initiated in accordance with the AAA Rules and this arbitration provision. If you prevail in the 
arbitration, LG will pay your attorneys’ fees and expenses as long as they are reasonable, by considering 
factors including, but not limited to, the purchase amount and claim amount. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, if applicable law allows for an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, an arbitrator 
can award them to the same extent that a court would. If the arbitrator finds either the substance of your 
claim or the relief sought in the demand is frivolous or brought for an improper purpose (as measured by 
the standards set forth in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11(b)), then the payment of all arbitration fees will 
be governed by the AAA Rules. In such a situation, you agree to reimburse LG for all monies previously 
disbursed by it that are otherwise your obligation to pay under the AAA Rules. Except as otherwise 
provided for, LG waives any rights it may have to seek attorneys’ fees and expenses from you if LG prevails 
in the arbitration.
Hearings and Location. If your claim is for $25,000 or less, you may choose to have the arbitration 
conducted solely on the basis of (1) documents submitted to the arbitrator, (2) through a telephonic 
hearing, or (3) by an in-person hearing as established by the AAA Rules. If your claim exceeds $25,000, the 
right to a hearing will be determined by the AAA Rules. Any in-person arbitration hearings will be held at a 
location within the federal judicial district in which you reside unless we both agree to another location or 
we agree to a telephonic arbitration.


--- PAGE 50 (TEXT) ---
50
LIMITED WARRANTY
Opt Out. You may opt out of this dispute resolution procedure. If you opt out, neither you nor LG can 
require the other to participate in an arbitration proceeding. To opt out, you must send notice to LG no 
later than 30 calendar days from the date of the first consumer purchaser’s purchase of the product by 
either: (i) sending an e-mail to optout@lge.com, with the subject line: “Arbitration Opt Out” or (ii) calling 1-
800-980-2973. You must include in the opt out e-mail or provide by telephone: (a) your name and address; 
(b) the date on which the product was purchased; (c) the product model name or model number; and (d) 
the serial number (the serial number can be found (i) on the product; or (ii) online by accessing https://
www.lg.com/us/support and clicking on “How do I find my model number?”).
You may only opt out of the dispute resolution procedure in the manner described above (that is, by e-mail 
or telephone); no other form of notice will be effective to opt out of this dispute resolution procedure. 
Opting out of this dispute resolution procedure will not affect the coverage of the Limited Warranty in any 
way, and you will continue to enjoy the full benefits of the Limited Warranty. If you keep this product and 
do not opt out, then you accept all terms and conditions of the arbitration provision described above.


--- PAGE 51 (TEXT) ---
51
LIMITED WARRANTY
ENGLISH
Canada
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
ARBITRATION NOTICE: THIS LIMITED WARRANTY CONTAINS AN ARBITRATION PROVISION THAT 
REQUIRES YOU AND LG TO RESOLVE DISPUTES BY BINDING ARBITRATION INSTEAD OF IN COURT, 
UNLESS THE LAWS OF YOUR PROVINCE OR TERRITORY DO NOT PERMIT THAT, OR, IN OTHER 
JURISDICTIONS, IF YOU CHOOSE TO OPT OUT. FOR FURTHER CLARITY, THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION 
IS NOT APPLICABLE TO CONSUMERS RESIDING IN ONTARIO AND QUÉBEC. IN ARBITRATION, CLASS 
ACTIONS AND JURY TRIALS ARE NOT PERMITTED. PLEASE SEE THE SECTION TITLED “PROCEDURE FOR 
RESOLVING DISPUTES” BELOW.
Should your LG Refrigerator ("Product") fail due to a defect in materials or workmanship under normal and 
proper use, during the warranty period set forth below, LG Electronics Canada, Inc. ("LGECI") will, at its 
option, repair, replace or pro rate the Product upon receipt of proof of the original retail purchase. This 
limited warranty is valid only to the original retail purchaser of the Product and applies only to a Product 
distributed, purchased from an authorized retailer and used within Canada, as determined at the sole 
discretion of LGECI.
• Replacement products and parts are warranted for the remaining portion of the original warranty period 
or ninety (90) days, whichever is greater.
• Replacement products and parts may be new, reconditioned, refurbished, or otherwise factory 
remanufactured, all at the sole discretion of LGECI.
• Proof of original retail purchase specifying the Product model and date of purchase is required to obtain 
warranty service under this Limited Warranty.
DISCLAIMER:
IF YOU ARE A CONSUMER SUBJECT TO QUÉBEC AND ONTARIO’S CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT, THE 
EXCLUSION OF WARRANTIES CONTAINED IN THIS SECTION DO NOT EXCLUDE OR LIMIT THE RIGHTS AND 
REMEDIES THAT YOU MAY HAVE UNDER SUCH ACT, INCLUDING THE RIGHT TO MAKE A CLAIM UNDER ANY 
OF THE STATUTORY WARRANTIES PROVIDED THEREUNDER.
LGECI’S SOLE LIABILITY IS LIMITED TO THE LIMITED WARRANTY SET OUT ABOVE, UNLESS SUCH 
LIMITATION IS PROHIBITED BY THE LAWS OF THE PROVINCE IN WHICH YOU RESIDE. EXCEPT AS 
EXPRESSLY PROVIDED ABOVE, OR IF OTHERWISE PROHIBITED BY THE LAW OF THE PROVINCE IN 
WHICH YOU RESIDE, LGECI DOES NOT MAKE ANY OTHER WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS RESPECTING 
THE PRODUCT, AND HEREBY DISCLAIMS, ALL OTHER WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS RESPECTING 
THE PRODUCT, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED 
WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND 
NO REPRESENTATIONS SHALL BE BINDING ON LGECI. LGECI DOES NOT AUTHORIZE ANY PERSON TO 
CREATE OR ASSUME FOR IT ANY OTHER WARRANTY OBLIGATION OR LIABILITY IN CONNECTION 
WITH THE PRODUCT. TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY WARRANTY OR CONDITION IS IMPLIED BY LAW, IT IS 
LIMITED TO THE WARRANTY PERIOD SET OUT ABOVE. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL LGECI, THE 
MANUFACTURER OR DISTRIBUTOR OF THE PRODUCT, BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, 
CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES, INCLUDING, 
WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOSS OF GOODWILL, LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF ANTICIPATED PROFITS, LOST 
REVENUE, LOSS OF USE, OR ANY OTHER DAMAGE, WHETHER ARISING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY FROM 
WARRANTY PERIOD (Note: If the original date of purchase cannot be verified, the warranty will 
begin sixty (60) days from the date of manufacture)
Refrigerator
Sealed System (Condenser, Dryer, Connecting 
Tube and Evaporator)
Linear / Inverter 
Compressor
One (1) year from the 
date of original retail 
purchase
One (1) year from the 
date of original retail 
purchase
Seven (7) years from the 
date of original retail 
purchase
Ten (10) years from the 
date of original retail 
purchase
Parts and Labor (internal/ 
functional parts only)
Parts and Labor
Parts only (Consumer will 
be charged for labor)
Part only (Consumer will 
be charged for labor)


--- PAGE 52 (TEXT) ---
52
LIMITED WARRANTY
ANY CONTRACTUAL BREACH, FUNDAMENTAL BREACH, TORT OR OTHERWISE, OR FROM ANY ACTS OR 
OMISSIONS. LGECI’S TOTAL LIABILITY, IF ANY, SHALL NOT EXCEED THE PURCHASE PRICE PAID BY YOU 
FOR THE PRODUCT.
This Limited Warranty gives you specific legal rights. You may also have other rights that vary from 
province to province depending on applicable provincial laws. Any term of this Limited Warranty that 
negates or varies any implied condition or warranty under provincial law is severable where it conflicts 
with such provincial law without affecting the remainder of this warranty’s terms.
THIS LIMITED WARRANTY DOES NOT COVER:
• Service trips to i) deliver, pick up, or install or; educate on how to operate the Product; ii) correct wiring or 
plumbing; or iii) correct unauthorized repairs or installations of the Product;
• Damage or failure of the Product to perform during power failures and interrupted or inadequate 
electrical service;
• Damage or failure caused by leaky or broken water pipes, frozen water pipes, restricted drain lines, 
inadequate or interrupted water supply or inadequate supply of air;
• Damage or failure resulting from operating the Product in a corrosive atmosphere or contrary to the 
instructions outlined in the Product’s owner’s manual;
• Damage or failure to the Product caused by accidents, pests and vermin, lightning, wind, fire, floods, acts 
of God, or any other causes beyond the control of LGECI or the manufacturer;
• Damage or failure resulting from misuse, abuse, improper installation, repair, or maintenance of the 
Product. Improper repair includes use of parts not authorized or specified by LGECI. Improper 
installation or maintenance includes installation or maintenance contrary to the Product’s owner’s 
manual;.
• Damage or failure caused by unauthorized modification or alteration of the Product, or if used for other 
than the intended household purpose/use of the Product, or damage or failure resulting from any water 
leakage due to improper installation of the Product;
• Damage or failure caused by incorrect electrical current, voltage or plumbing codes;
• Damage or failure caused by use that is other than normal household use, including, without limitation, 
commercial or industrial use, including use in commercial offices or recreational facilities, or as 
otherwise outlined in the Product’s owner’s manual;
• Damage or failure caused by the use of any accessories, components or cleaning products, including, 
without limitation, water filters, that are not approved/authorized by LGECI;
• Replacement of the water filter cartridge due to water pressure that is outside the specified operating 
range or due to excessive sediment in the water supply;
• Damage or failure caused by transportation and handling, including scratches, dents, chips and/or other 
damage to the finish of the Product, unless such damage results from defects in materials or 
workmanship and is reported to LGECI within one (1) week of delivery of the Products;
• Damage or missing items to any display, open box, refurbished or discounted Product;
• Refurbished Product or any Product sold “As Is”, “Where Is”, “With all Faults”, or any similar disclaimer;
• Products with original serial numbers that have been removed, altered or cannot be readily determined 
at the discretion of LGECI;
• Increases in utility costs and additional utility expenses in any way associated with the Product;
• Any noises associated with normal operation of the Product;
• Replacement of light bulbs, filters, fuses or any other consumable parts;
• Replacement of any part that was not originally included with the Product;
• Costs associated with removal and/or reinstallation of the Product for repairs; and
• Shelves, door bins, drawers, handle and accessories to the Product, except for internal/functional parts 
covered under this Limited Warranty.
• Coverage for "in Home" repairs, for products in-warranty, will be provided if the Product is within a 150 
km radius from the nearest authorized service center (ASC), as determined by LG Canada. If your Product 


--- PAGE 53 (TEXT) ---
53
LIMITED WARRANTY
ENGLISH
is located outside a 150 km radius from a ASC, as determined by LG Canada, it will be your responsibility 
to bring the Product, at your sole expense, to the ASC for in-warranty repair.
All costs and expenses associated with the above excluded circumstances, listed under the heading, 
This Limited Warranty Does Not Cover, shall be borne by the consumer.
TO OBTAIN WARRANTY SERVICE AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, PLEASE CALL OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE:
Call 1-888-542-2623 (8 am - 9 pm EST, 365 days) and select the appropriate option from the menu, or visit 
our website at http://www.lg.com
PROCEDURE FOR RESOLVING DISPUTES:
EXCEPT WHERE PROHIBITED AT LAW (INCLUDING WITH RESPECT TO QUÉBEC AND ONTARIO 
CONSUMERS), ALL DISPUTES BETWEEN YOU AND LG ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING IN ANY WAY TO THIS 
LIMITED WARRANTY OR THE PRODUCT SHALL BE RESOLVED EXCLUSIVELY THROUGH BINDING 
ARBITRATION, AND NOT IN A COURT OF GENERAL JURISDICTION. EXCEPT WHERE PROHIBITED AT LAW 
(INCLUDING WITH RESPECT TO QUÉBEC AND ONTARIO CONSUMERS), YOU AND LG BOTH IRREVOCABLY 
AGREE TO WAIVE THE RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL AND TO BRING OR PARTICIPATE IN A CLASS ACTION.
Definitions. For the purposes of this section, references to “LG” mean LG Electronics Canada, Inc., its 
parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, and each of their officers, directors, employees, agents, beneficiaries, 
predecessors in interest, successors, assigns and suppliers; references to “dispute” or “claim” shall include 
any dispute, claim or controversy of any kind whatsoever (whether based in contract, tort, statute, 
regulation, ordinance, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal or equitable theory) arising out of or 
relating in any way to the sale, condition or performance of the product or this Limited Warranty.
Notice of Dispute. In the event you intend to commence an arbitration proceeding, you must first notify 
LG in writing at least 30 days in advance of initiating the arbitration by sending a letter to LGECI Legal 
Team at 20 Norelco Drive, North York, Ontario, Canada M9L 2X6 (the “Notice of Dispute”). You and LG 
agree to engage in good faith discussions in an attempt to amicably resolve your claim. The notice must 
provide your name, address, and telephone number; identify the product that is the subject of the claim; 
and describe the nature of the claim and the relief being sought. If you and LG are unable to resolve the 
dispute within 30 days of LG’s receipt of the Notice of Dispute, the dispute shall be resolved by binding 
arbitration in accordance with the procedure set out herein. You and LG both agree that, during the 
arbitration proceeding, the terms (including any amount) of any settlement offer made by either you or LG 
will not be disclosed to the arbitrator until the arbitrator determines the dispute.
Agreement to Binding Arbitration and Class Action Waiver. Upon failure to resolve the dispute during 
the 30 day period after LG’s receipt of the Notice of Dispute, you and LG agree to resolve any claims 
between you and LG only by binding arbitration on an individual basis, unless you opt out as provided 
below, or you reside in a jurisdiction that prevents full application of this clause in the circumstances of the 
claims at issue (in which case if you are a consumer, this clause will only apply if you expressly agree to the 
arbitration). To the extent permitted by applicable law, any dispute between you and LG shall not be 
combined or consolidated with a dispute involving any other person’s or entity’s product or claim. More 
specifically, without limitation of the foregoing, except to the extent such a prohibition is not permitted at 
law, any dispute between you and LG shall not under any circumstances proceed as part of a class or 
representative action. Instead of arbitration, either party may bring an individual action in small claims 
court, but that small claims court action may not be brought on a class or representative basis except to 
the extent this prohibition is not permitted at law in your province or territory of jurisdiction as it relates to 
the claims at issue between you and LG. This does not apply to consumers in Ontario and Québec. In 
accordance with provincial legislation, the consumer and LG may agree to resolve the dispute using any 
procedure available, including commencing the action before the competent courts of those provinces.
Arbitration Rules and Procedures. To begin arbitration of a claim, either you or LG must make a written 
demand for arbitration. The arbitration will be private and confidential, and conducted on a simplified and 
expedited basis before a single arbitrator chosen by the parties under the provincial or territorial 
commercial arbitration law and rules of the province or territory of your residence. You must also send a 
copy of your written demand to LG at LG Electronics, Canada, Inc., Attn: Legal Department- Arbitration, 20 
Norelco Drive, North York, Ontario M9L 2X6. This arbitration provision is governed by your applicable 
provincial or territorial commercial arbitration legislation. For consumers in Ontario and Québec, the 
applicable arbitration legislation only applies if consumers agree to submit the dispute to arbitration. 
Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator’s award in any court of competent jurisdiction. All issues are 


--- PAGE 54 (TEXT) ---
54
LIMITED WARRANTY
for the arbitrator to decide, except that, issues relating to the scope and enforceability of the arbitration 
provision and to the arbitrability of the dispute are for the court to decide. The arbitrator is bound by the 
terms of this provision.
Governing Law. The law of the province or territory of your purchase shall govern this Limited Warranty 
and any disputes between you and LG except to the extent that such law is preempted by or inconsistent 
with applicable federal or provincial/territorial law. Should arbitration not be permitted for any claim, 
action, dispute or controversy between you and LG, you and LG attorn to the exclusive jurisdiction of the 
courts of the province or territory of your purchase for the resolution of the claim, action, dispute or 
controversy between you and LG.
Fees/Costs. You do not need to pay any fee to begin an arbitration. Upon receipt of your written demand 
for arbitration, LG will promptly pay all arbitration filing fees unless you seek more than $25,000 in 
damages, in which case the payment of these fees will be governed by the applicable arbitration rules. 
Except as otherwise provided for herein, LG will pay all filing, administration and arbitrator fees for any 
arbitration initiated in accordance with the applicable arbitration rules and this arbitration provision. If you 
prevail in the arbitration, LG will pay your attorneys’ fees and expenses as long as they are reasonable, by 
considering factors including, but not limited to, the purchase amount and claim amount. Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, if applicable law allows for an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, an 
arbitrator can award them to the same extent that a court would. If the arbitrator finds either the 
substance of your claim or the relief sought in the demand is frivolous or brought for an improper purpose 
(as measured by the applicable laws), then the payment of all arbitration fees will be governed by the 
applicable arbitration rules. In such a situation, you agree to reimburse LG for all monies previously 
disbursed by it that are otherwise your obligation to pay under the applicable arbitration rules. Except as 
otherwise provided for, LG waives any rights it may have to seek attorneys’ fees and expenses from you if 
LG prevails in the arbitration.
Hearings and Location. If your claim is for $25,000 or less, you may choose to have the arbitration 
conducted solely (1) on the basis of documents submitted to the arbitrator, (2) through a telephonic 
hearing, or (3) by an in-person hearing as established by the applicable arbitration rules. If your claim 
exceeds $25,000, the right to a hearing will be determined by the applicable arbitration rules. Any in-
person arbitration hearings will be held at the nearest, most mutually-convenient arbitration location 
available within the province or territory in which you reside unless you and LG both agree to another 
location or agree to a telephonic arbitration.
Severability and Waiver. If any portion of this Limited Warranty (including these arbitration procedures) 
is unenforceable, the remaining provisions will continue in full force and effect to the maximum extent 
permitted by applicable law. Should LG fail to enforce strict performance of any provision of this Limited 
Warranty (including these arbitration procedures), it does not mean that LG intends to waive or has waived 
any provision or part of this Limited Warranty.
Opt Out. The arbitration provision requires you and LG to resolve disputes by binding arbitration instead 
of court, unless the laws of your province or territory do not permit that, or, in other jurisdictions, if you 
choose to opt out. The arbitration provision does not apply to consumers in Ontario and Québec.
For individuals that fall within the binding arbitration provisions, you may opt out of this dispute resolution 
procedure. If you opt out, neither you nor LG can require the other to participate in an arbitration 
proceeding. To opt out, you must send notice to LG no later than 30 calendar days from the date of the 
first consumer purchaser’s purchase of the product by either (i) sending an e-mail to optout@lge.com, with 
the subject line: “Arbitration Opt Out;” or (ii) calling 1- 800-980-2973. You must include in the opt out e-mail 
or provide by telephone: (a) your name and address; (b) the date on which the product was purchased; (c) 
the product model name or model number; and (d) the serial number (the serial number can be found (i) 
on the product; or (ii) online by accessing https://www.lg.com/ca_en/findmodel_serial/).
In the event that you “Opt Out”, the law of the province or territory of your residence shall govern this 
Limited Warranty and any disputes between you and LG except to the extent that such law is preempted 
by or inconsistent with applicable federal or provincial/territorial law. Should arbitration not be permitted 
for any claim, action, dispute or controversy between you and LG, you and LG agree to attorn to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the province or territory of your residence for the resolution of the 
claim, action, dispute or controversy between you and LG.
You may only opt out of the dispute resolution procedure in the manner described above (that is, by e-mail 
or telephone); no other form of notice will be effective to opt out of this dispute resolution procedure. 
Opting out of this dispute resolution procedure will not affect the coverage of the Limited Warranty in any 


--- PAGE 55 (TEXT) ---
55
LIMITED WARRANTY
ENGLISH
way, and you will continue to enjoy the full benefits of the Limited Warranty. If you keep this product and 
do not opt out, then you accept all terms and conditions of the arbitration provision described above.
Conflict of Terms. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this Limited Warranty 
and the End User License Agreement (“EULA”) in regards to dispute resolution, the terms of this Limited 
Warranty shall control and govern the rights and obligations of the parties and shall take precedence over 
the EULA.


--- PAGE 56 (TEXT) ---
LG Customer Information Center
Register your product Online!
www.lg.com
For inquiries or comments,
visit www.lg.com or call:
1-800-243-0000    U.S.A.
1-888-542-2623    CANADA
Centro de Información al Cliente LG
¡Registre su producto en línea!
www.lg.com
Para consultas o comentarios, visite 
www.lg.com o llame por teléfono:
    
1-800-243-0000 EE.UU.
    
1-888-542-2623 CANADÁ
Centre de Service à la Clientèle de LG
Enregistrez votre produit en ligne!
Pour des questions ou des commentaires, 
visitez www.lg.com/ca_fr ou appelez :
    
1-800-243-0000 ÉTATS-UNIS
    
1-888-542-2623 CANADA
www.lg.com/ca_fr

