
--- PAGE 1 (TEXT) ---
Refrigerator
User manual
Free Standing Appliance
Untitled-2   1
11/14/2017   7:33:16 PM


--- PAGE 2 (TEXT) ---
English
2 
Contents
Contents
Safety information	
3
Important safety symbols and precautions:	
5
Severe warning signs for transportation and site	
5
Critical installation warnings	
6
Installation cautions	
10
Critical usage warnings	
10
Usage cautions	
15
Cleaning cautions	
18
Critical disposal warnings	
20
Additional tips for proper usage	
21
This appliance is intended to be used in household and similar applications such as	
22
Instructions about the WEEE	
22
Installation	
23
Refrigerator at a glance	
23
Step-by-step installation	
26
Operations	
30
Feature panel	
30
Special features	
37
Maintenance	
39
Handle and care	
39
Cleaning	
40
Replacement	
40
Troubleshooting	
41
General	
41
Untitled-2   2
11/14/2017   7:33:16 PM


--- PAGE 3 (TEXT) ---
English  3
Safety information
•	 Before using your new Samsung Refrigerator, please read 
this manual thoroughly to ensure that you know how to 
operate the features and functions that your new appliance 
offers safely and efficiently.
•	 This appliance is not intended for use by persons 
(including children) with reduced physical, sensory, or 
mental capabilities, or those who lack experience and 
knowledge, unless they have been given supervision or 
instruction concerning the use of the appliance by a person 
responsible for their safety.
•	 This appliance can be used by children aged from 8 years 
and above and persons with reduced physical, sensory or 
mental capabilities or lack of experience and knowledge 
if they have been given supervision or instruction 
concerning use of the appliance in a safe way and 
understand the hazards involved. Children shall not play 
with the appliance. Cleaning and user maintenance shall 
not be made by children without supervision.
•	 Warnings and Important Safety Instructions in this manual 
do not cover all possible conditions and situations that 
may occur.
It is your responsibility to use common sense, caution, 
and care when installing, maintaining, and operating your 
appliance.
•	 Because these following operating instructions cover 
various models, the characteristics of your refrigerator 
may differ slightly from those described in this manual and 
not all warning signs may be applicable. If you have any 
questions or concerns, contact your nearest service center 
or find help and information online at www.samsung.com.
Safety information
Untitled-2   3
11/14/2017   7:33:16 PM


--- PAGE 4 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
4 
Safety information
•	 R-600a or R-134a is used as a refrigerant. Check the 
compressor label on the rear of the appliance or the rating 
label inside the fridge to see which refrigerant is used for 
your refrigerator. When this product contains flammable 
gas (Refrigerant R-600a), contact your local authority in 
regard to safe disposal of this product.
•	 In order to avoid the creation of a flammable gas-air 
mixture if a leak in the refrigerating circuit occurs, the size 
of the room in which the appliance may be sited depends 
on the amount of refrigerant used.
•	 Never start up an appliance showing any signs of damage. 
If in doubt, consult your dealer. The room must be 1 m3 
in size for every 8 g of R-600a refrigerant inside the 
appliance.
The amount of refrigerant in your particular appliance is 
shown on the identification plate inside the appliance.
•	 Refrigerant squirting out of the pipes could ignite or cause 
an eye injury. When refrigerant leaks from the pipe, avoid 
any naked flames and move anything flammable away 
from the product and ventilate the room immediately.
-	 Failing to do so may result in fire or explosion.
•	 It is hazardous for anyone other than an Authorised 
Service Person to service this appliance.
Warning: Risk of fire / Flammable materials
Untitled-2   4
11/14/2017   7:33:16 PM


--- PAGE 5 (TEXT) ---
English  5
Safety information
Important safety symbols and precautions:
WARNING
Hazards or unsafe practices that may result in severe personal 
injury or death.
CAUTION
Hazards or unsafe practices that may result in minor personal 
injury or property damage.
These warning signs are here to prevent injury to you and 
others.
Please follow them carefully.
After reading this section, keep it in a safe place for future 
reference.
Severe warning signs for transportation and site
WARNING
•	 When transporting and installing the appliance,care should 
be taken to ensure that no parts of the refrigerating circuit 
are damaged.
-	 Refrigerant leaking from the pipe work could ignite 
or cause an eye injury. If a leak is detected, avoid any 
naked flames or potential sources of ignition and air 
the room in which the appliance is standing for several 
minutes.
Untitled-2   5
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 6 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
6 
Safety information
-	 This appliance contains a small amount of isobutane 
refrigerant (R-600a), a natural gas with high 
environmental compatibility that is, however, also 
combustible. When transporting and installing the 
appliance, care should be taken to ensure that no parts 
of the refrigerating circuit are damaged.
Critical installation warnings
WARNING
•	 Do not install the refrigerator in a damp location or place 
where it may come in contact with water.
-	 Deteriorated insulation on electrical parts may cause an 
electric shock or fire.
•	 Do not place this refrigerator in direct sunlight or expose it 
to the heat from stoves, room heaters, or other appliances.
•	 Do not plug several appliances into the same multiple 
power strip. The refrigerator should always be plugged 
into its own individual electrical outlet which has a voltage 
rating that matches the voltage listed on the refrigerator’s 
rating plate.
-	 This provides the best performance and also prevents 
overloading of house wiring circuits, which could cause 
a fire hazard from overheated wires.
•	 If the wall socket is loose, do not insert the power plug.
-	 There is a risk of electric shock of fire.
•	 Do not use a power cord that has cracks or abrasion 
damage along its length or at either end.
Untitled-2   6
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 7 (TEXT) ---
English  7
Safety information
•	 Do not bend the power cord excessively or place heavy 
objects on it.
•	 Do not pull or excessively bend the power cord
•	 Do not twist or tie the power cord.
•	 Do not hook the power cord over a metal object, place a 
heavy object on the power cord, insert the power cord 
between objects, or push the power cord into the space 
behind the appliance
•	 When moving the refrigerator, be careful not to roll over or 
damage the power cord.
-	 This may result in an electric shock or fire.
•	 Never unplug your refrigerator by pulling on the power 
cord. Always grip the plug firmly and pull straight out from 
the outlet.
-	 Damage to the cord may cause a short-circuit, fire, and/
or electric shock.
•	 Do not store explosive substances such as aerosol cans 
with a flammable propellant in this appliance.
•	 Do not install this appliance near a heater or inflammable 
material
•	 Do not install this appliance in a location where gas may 
leak.
-	 This may result in an electric shock or fire.
•	 This refrigerator must be properly located and installed in 
accordance with the instructions in this manual before you 
use it.
•	 Connect the power plug in the proper position with the 
cord hanging down.
-	 If you connect the power plug upside down, the wire 
can get cut off and cause a fire or electric shock.
Untitled-2   7
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 8 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
8 
Safety information
•	 Make sure that the power plug is not crushed or damaged 
by the back of the refrigerator.
•	 Keep the packing materials out of reach of children.
-	 There is a risk of death from suffocation if a child puts 
the packing materials on his or her head.
•	 The appliance must be positioned so that the plug is 
accessible after installation.
-	 Failing to do so may result in an electric shock or fire 
due to electric leakage.
•	 Do not install this appliance in a humid, oily or dusty 
location, in a location exposed to direct sunlight and water 
(rain drops).
-	 Deteriorated insulation of electrical parts may cause an 
electric shock or fire.
•	 If any dust or water is in the refrigerator, pull out power 
plug and contact your Samsung Electronics service center.
-	 Otherwise there is a risk of fire.
•	 Do not stand on top of the appliance or place objects (such 
as laundry, lighted candles, lighted cigarettes, dishes, 
chemicals, metal objects, etc.) on the appliance.
-	 This may result in an electric shock, fire, problems with 
the product, or injury.
•	 You need to remove all the protective plastic film before 
you initially plug the product in.
•	 Children should be supervised to ensure that they do not 
play with the snap rings used for door adjustment or the 
water tube clips.
-	 There is risk of death by suffocation if a child swallows 
a snap ring or water tube clip. Keep the snap rings and 
water tube clips out of children’s reach.
Untitled-2   8
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 9 (TEXT) ---
English  9
Safety information
•	 The refrigerator must be safely grounded.
-	 Always make sure that you have grounded the 
refrigerator before attempting to investigate or repair 
any part of the appliance. Power leakages can cause 
severe electric shock.
•	 Never use gas pipes, telephone lines, or other potential 
lightning attractors as an electrical ground.
-	 You must ground the refrigerator to prevent any power 
leakages or electric shocks caused by current leakage 
from the refrigerator.
-	 This may result in an electric shock, fire, explosion, or 
problems with the product.
•	 Plug the power plug into the wall socket firmly. Do not use 
a damaged power plug, damaged power cord, or loose wall 
socket.
-	 This may result in an electric shock or fire.
•	 If the power cord is damaged, have it replaced 
immediately by the manufacturer or one of its service 
agents.
•	 The fuse on the refrigerator must be changed by a 
qualified technician or service company.
-	 Failing to do so may result in an electric shock or 
personal injury.
•	 When positioning the appliance, ensure the supply cord is 
not trapped or damaged.
•	 Do not locate multiple portable socket-outlets or portable 
power supplies at the rear of the appliance.
Untitled-2   9
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 10 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
10 
Safety information
Installation cautions
CAUTION
•	 Allow sufficient space around the refrigerator and install it 
on a flat surface.
-	 Keep the ventilation space in the appliance enclosure or 
mounting structure clear of obstructions.
•	 Allow the appliance to stand for 2 hours before loading 
foods after installation and turning on.
•	 We strongly recommend you have a qualified technician or 
service company install the refrigerator.
-	 Failing to do so may result in an electric shock, fire, 
explosion, problems with the product, or injury.
•	 Overload on any one door may fell the refrigerator, 
causing physical injury.
Critical usage warnings
WARNING
•	 Do not insert the power plug into a wall socket with wet 
hands.
-	 This may result in an electric shock.
•	 Do not store articles on the top of the appliance.
-	 When you open or close the door, the articles may fall 
and cause personal injury and/or material damage.
•	 Do not insert hands, feet or metal objects (such as 
chopsticks, etc.) into the bottom or the back of the 
refrigerator.
-	 This may result in an electric shock or injury.
Untitled-2   10
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 11 (TEXT) ---
English  11
Safety information
-	 Any sharp edges may cause a personal injury.
•	 Do not touch the inside walls of the freezer or products 
stored in the freezer with wet hands.
-	 This may cause frostbite.
•	 Do not put a container filled with water on the refrigerator.
-	 If spilled, there is a risk of fire or electric shock.
•	 Do not keep volatile or flammable objects or substances 
(benzene, thinner, propane gas, alcohol, ether, LP gas, and 
other such products) in the refrigerator.
-	 This refrigerator is for storing food only.
-	 This may result in fire or explosion.
•	 Children should be supervised to ensure that they do not 
play with the appliance.
-	 Keep fingers out of “pinch point” areas. Clearances 
between the doors and cabinet are necessarily small. Be 
careful when you open the doors if children are in the 
area.
•	 Do not let children hang on the door or door bins. A 
serious injury may occur.
•	 Do not let children go inside the refrigerator. They could 
become trapped.
•	 Do not insert your hands into the bottom area under the 
appliance.
-	 Any sharp edges may cause personal injury.
•	 Do not store pharmaceutical products, scientific materials, 
or temperature sensitive products in the refrigerator.
-	 Products that require strict temperature controls must 
not be stored in the refrigerator.
Untitled-2   11
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 12 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
12 
Safety information
•	 Do not place or use electrical appliance inside 
the refrigerator/freezer, unless they are of a type 
recommended by the manufacturer.
•	 If you smell pharmaceutical or smoke, pull out power plug 
immediately and contact your Samsung Electronics service 
center.
•	 If any dust or water is in Refrigerator, pull out power plug 
and contact your Samsung Electronics service center.
-	 Otherwise there is a risk of fire.
•	 Do not let children step on a drawer.
-	 The drawer may break and cause them to slip.
•	 Do not leave the doors of the refrigerator open while the 
refrigerator is unattended and do not let children enter 
inside the refrigerator.
•	 Do not allow babies or children go inside the drawer.
-	 It can cause death from suffocation by entrapment or 
personal injury.
•	 Do not overfill the refrigerator with food.
-	 When you open the door, an item may fall out and 
cause personal injury or material damage.
•	 Do not spray volatile material such as insecticide onto the 
surface of the appliance.
-	 As well as being harmful to humans, it may also result 
in an electric shock, fire, or problems with the product.
•	 Do not use or place any substances sensitive to 
temperature such as flammable sprays, flammable objects, 
dry ice, medicine, or chemicals near or inside of the 
refrigerator.
Untitled-2   12
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 13 (TEXT) ---
English  13
Safety information
•	 Do not use a hair dryer to dry the inside of the 
refrigerator. Do not place a lighted candle in the 
refrigerator for removing bad odours.
-	 This may result in an electric shock or fire.
•	 Fill the water tank, ice tray and water cubes only with 
potable water (mineral water or purified water).
-	 Do not fill the tank with tea, juice or sports drink, this 
may damage the refrigerator.
•	 Do not stand on top of the appliance or place objects (such 
as laundry, lighted candles, lighted cigarettes, dishes, 
chemicals, metal objects, etc.) on the appliance. This may 
result in an electric shock, fire, problems with the product, 
or injury. Do not put a container filled with water on the 
appliance.
-	 If spilled, there is a risk of fire or electric shock.
•	 Do not use mechanical devices or any other means 
to accelerate the defrosting process, other than those 
recommended by the manufacturer.
•	 Do not damage the refrigerant circuit.
•	 Never stare directly at the UV LED lamp for long periods of 
time.
-	 This may result in eye strain due to the ultraviolet rays.
•	 Do not put fridge shelf in upside down. Shelf stopper could 
not work.
-	 It may cause a personal injury because of glass shelf 
drop.
•	 Keep fingers out of “pinch point” areas. Clearances 
between the doors and cabinet are necessarily small. Be 
careful when you open the doors if children are in the area.
Untitled-2   13
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 14 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
14 
Safety information
•	 If a gas leak is detected, avoid any naked flames or 
potential sources of ignition, and air the room in which the 
appliance is standing for several minutes.
-	 Do not touch the appliance or power cord.
-	 Do not use a ventilating fan.
-	 A spark may result in explosion or fire.
•	 Use only the LED Lamps provided by the manufacturer or 
its service agents.
•	 Bottles should be stored tightly together so that they do 
not fall out.
•	 This product is intended only for the storage of food in a 
domestic environment.
•	 Do not attempt to repair, disassemble, or modify the 
refrigerator yourself.
-	 Unauthorized modifications can cause safety problems. 
To reverse an unauthorized modification, we will charge 
the full cost of parts and labor.
•	 Do not use any fuse (such as cooper, steel wire, etc.) other 
than a standard fuse.
•	 If your refrigerator needs to be repaired or reinstalled, 
contact your nearest service center.
-	 Failing to do so may result in an electric shock, fire, 
problems with the product, or injury.
•	 If the interior or exterior LED lamp has gone out, contact 
your nearest service center.
•	 If the refrigerator emits a burning smell or smoke, unplug 
the refrigerator immediately and contact your Samsung 
Electronics service center.
-	 Failing to do so may result in an electric or fire hazards.
Untitled-2   14
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 15 (TEXT) ---
English  15
Safety information
•	 Pull the power plug out of the socket before changing the 
interior lamps of the refrigerator
-	 Otherwise, there is a risk of electric shock.
•	 If you experience difficulty changing a non-LED light, 
contact a Samsung service center.
•	 If the product is equipped with LED lamps, do not 
disassemble the Lamp Covers and LED lamps yourself.
-	 Contact a Samsung service center.
•	 Plug the power plug into the wall socket firmly.
•	 Do not use a damaged power plug, damaged power cord or 
loose wall socket.
-	 This may result in an electric shock or fire.
Usage cautions
CAUTION
•	 Do not re-freeze frozen foods that have thawed 
completely. Do not place carbonated or fizzy drinks in 
the freezer compartment. Do not put bottles or glass 
containers in the freezer.
-	 When the contents freeze, the glass may break and 
cause personal injury.
•	 Use only the ice maker provided with the refrigerator.
•	 To get the best performance from the product:
-	 Do not place food too close to the vents at the rear of 
the refrigerator as this can obstruct free air circulation 
in the refrigerator compartment.
-	 Wrap food up properly or place it in airtight containers 
before putting it into the refrigerator.
Untitled-2   15
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 16 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
16 
Safety information
-	 Do not place glass bottles or carbonated beverages 
into the freezer. They can freeze and break. Broken 
beverage containers can cause injury.
-	 Please observe maximum storage times and expiration 
dates of frozen goods.
•	 Do not place glass or bottles or carbonated beverages into 
the freezer.
-	 The container may freeze and break, and this may 
result in injury.
•	 Do not place carbonated or fizzy drinks in the freezer 
compartment. Do not put bottles or glass containers in the 
freezer.
-	 When the contents freeze, the glass may break and 
cause personal injury and property damage.
•	 Service Warranty and Modification.
-	 Any changes or modifications performed by a 3rd 
party on this finished appliance are not covered 
under Samsung warranty service, nor is Samsung 
responsible for safety issues that result from 3rd party 
modifications.
•	 Do not block the air vents inside the refrigerator.
-	 If the air vents are blocked, especially with a plastic 
bag, the refrigerator can be over cooled. If a cooling 
period lasts too long, the water filter may break and 
cause water leakage.
•	 Use only the ice-maker provided with the refrigerator.
•	 Wipe excess moisture from the inside and leave the doors 
open.
-	 Otherwise, odor and mold may develop.
Untitled-2   16
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 17 (TEXT) ---
English  17
Safety information
•	 If the refrigerator is disconnected from the power supply, 
you should wait for at least five minutes before plugging it 
back in.
•	 When the refrigerator got wet by water, pull out the power 
plug and contact your Samsung Electronics service center.
•	 Do not strike or apply excessive force to any glass surface.
-	 Broken glass may result in a personal injury and/or 
property damage.
•	 Fill the water tank and ice cube trays with potable water 
only (tap water, mineral water, or purified water).
-	 Do not fill the tank with tea or a sports drink. This may 
damage the refrigerator.
•	 Be careful that your 
fingers are not caught in.
•	 The lamps in the freezer and refrigerator can be turned off 
if the doors of the freezer and refrigerator are left open 
for 2 seconds or longer.
-	 The lamps will turn back on when the doors are closed 
and opened again.
•	 If the refrigerator is flooded, make sure to contact your 
nearest service center.
-	 There is a risk of electric shock or fire.
Untitled-2   17
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 18 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
18 
Safety information
•	 Do not keep vegetable oil in your refrigerator’s door bins. 
The oil can solidify, making it foul-tasting and difficult to 
use. In addition, the open container can leak and the leaked 
oil can cause the door bin to crack. After opening an oil 
container, it is best to keep the container in a cool and 
shaded place such as a cupboard or pantry.
-	 Examples of vegetable oil: olive oil, corn oil, grape-seed 
oil, etc.
Cleaning cautions
CAUTION
•	 Do not spray water directly on the inside or outside the 
refrigerator.
-	 There is a risk of fire or electric shock.
•	 Do not use a hair dryer to dry the inside of the 
refrigerator.
•	 Do not place a lighted candle in the refrigerator to remove 
bad odors.
-	 This may result in an electric shock or fire.
•	 Do not spray cleaning products directly on the display.
-	 Printed letters on the display may come off.
•	 If any foreign substance such as water has entered the 
appliance, unplug the power plug and contact your nearest 
service center.
-	 Failing to do so may result in an electric shock or fire.
Untitled-2   18
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 19 (TEXT) ---
English  19
Safety information
•	 Use a clean, dry cloth to remove any foreign matter or dust 
from the power plug blades. Do not use a wet or damp 
cloth when cleaning the plug.
-	 Otherwise, there is a risk of fire or electric shock.
•	 Do not clean the appliance by spraying water directly onto 
it.
•	 Do not use benzene, thinner, or Clorox, Chloride for 
cleaning.
-	 They may damage the surface of the appliance and may 
cause a fire.
•	 Never put fingers or other objects into the dispenser hole.
-	 It may cause a personal injury or material damage.
•	 Before cleaning or performing maintenance, unplug the 
appliance from the wall socket.
-	 Failing to do so may result in an electric shock or fire.
•	 Use a clean sponge or soft cloth and a mild detergent in 
warm water to clean the refrigerator.
•	 Do not use abrasive or harsh cleansers such as window 
sprays, scouring cleansers, flammable fluids, muriatic 
acid, cleaning waxes, concentrated detergents, bleaches, 
or cleansers containing petroleum products on exterior 
surfaces (doors and cabinet), plastic parts, door and interior 
liners, and gaskets.
-	 These can scratch or damage the material.
•	 Do not clean glass shelves or covers with warm water 
when they are cold. Glass shelves and covers may break if 
exposed to sudden temperature changes or impacts such 
as bumping or dropping.
Untitled-2   19
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 20 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
20 
Safety information
Critical disposal warnings
WARNING
•	 Please dispose of the packaging material from this product 
in an environmentally friendly manner.
•	 Ensure that none of the pipes on the back of the 
refrigerator are damaged prior to disposal.
•	 R-600a or R-134a is used as a refrigerant. Check the 
compressor label on the rear of the appliance or the rating 
label inside the fridge to see which refrigerant is used for 
your refrigerator. If this refrigerator contains flammable 
gas (Refrigerant R-600a), contact your local authority in 
regard to safe disposal of this product.
•	 When disposing of this refrigerator, remove the door/
door seals and door latch so that small children or 
animals cannot become trapped inside. Children should 
be supervised to ensure that they do not play with the 
appliance. If trapped inside, a child may get hurt or 
suffocate to death.
-	 If trapped inside, the child may become injury and 
suffocate to death.
•	 Cyclopentane is used in the insulation. The gases in the 
insulation material require a special disposal procedure. 
Please contact your local authorities in regard to the 
environmentally safe disposal of this product.
•	 Keep all packaging materials well out of the reach of 
children, as packaging materials can be dangerous to 
children.
-	 If a child places a bag over his or her head, the child 
could suffocate.
Untitled-2   20
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 21 (TEXT) ---
English  21
Safety information
Additional tips for proper usage
•	 In the event of a power failure, call the local office of your 
electric company and ask how long the failure is going to 
last.
-	 Most power failures that are corrected in an hour or two 
will not affect your refrigerator temperatures. However, 
you should minimize the number of door openings 
while the power is off.
-	 Should the power failure last more than 24 hours, 
remove and discard all frozen food.
•	 The refrigerator might not operate consistently (frozen 
contents can thaw or temperatures can become too 
warm in the frozen food compartment) if sited for an 
extended period of time in a location where ambient air 
temperatures are constantly below the temperatures for 
which the appliance is designed.
•	 In case of particular foods, keeping it under refrigeration 
can have a bad effect on preservation due to its properties.
•	 Your appliance is frost free, which means there is no need 
to manually defrost your appliance. This will be carried out 
automatically.
•	 Temperature rise during defrosting complies with ISO 
requirements. If you want to prevent an undue rise in the 
temperature of frozen food while the appliance defrosts, 
wrap the frozen food in several layers of newspaper.
•	 Do not re-freeze frozen foods that have thawed 
completely.
Untitled-2   21
11/14/2017   7:33:17 PM


--- PAGE 22 (TEXT) ---
Safety information
English
22 
Safety information
•	 The temperature of two star section (sections) or 
compartment (compartments) which have two star symbol 
(
) is slightly higher than other freezer compartment 
(compartments).
The two star section (sections) or compartment 
(compartments) is (are) based on the instruction and/or the 
condition as delivered.
This appliance is intended to be used in household 
and similar applications such as
•	 staff kitchen areas in shops, offices and other working 
environments;
•	 farm houses and by clients in hotels, motels and other 
residential type environments;
•	 bed and breakfast type environments;
•	 catering and similar non-retail applications.
Instructions about the WEEE
Correct Disposal of This Product (Waste Electrical & Electronic Equipment)
(Applicable in countries with separate collection systems)
This marking on the product, accessories or literature indicates that the 
product and its electronic accessories (e.g. charger, headset, USB cable) 
should not be disposed of with other household waste at the end of their 
working life. To prevent possible harm to the environment or human 
health from uncontrolled waste disposal, please separate these items 
from other types of waste and recycle them responsibly to promote the 
sustainable reuse of material resources.
For more information on safe disposal and recycling visit our website 
www.samsung.com/in/support or contact our Helpline numbers - 
1800 40 SAMSUNG (1800 40 7267864).
Untitled-2   22
11/14/2017   7:33:18 PM


--- PAGE 23 (TEXT) ---
English  23
Installation
Follow these instructions carefully to ensure a proper installation of this refrigerator and to 
prevent accidents before using it.
WARNING
•	 Use the refrigerator only for its intended purpose as described in this manual.
•	 Any servicing must be performed by a qualified technician.
•	 Dispose of the product packaging material in compliance with the local regulations.
Refrigerator at a glance
NOTE
The actual image and provided component parts of the refrigerator may differ, depending 
on the model and the country.
06
07
08
01
02
03
04
05
01	Shelf Fre *
02	Ice Maker *
03	Fresh Room *
04	Deodorizer *
05	Vegetable Drawer *
06	Freezer Door bin
07	Fridge Door bin
08	Multi Storage Basket *
* applicable models only
Installation
Untitled-2   23
11/14/2017   7:33:18 PM


--- PAGE 24 (TEXT) ---
Installation
English
24 
Installation
Optional accessories *
Cool pack: This helps keep the refrigerator cool.
Ice tray: Used to make ice.
Twist Ice Maker: Used to make ice.
* Your refrigerator may not include optional accessories listed above. Provision of optional 
accessories depends on the model and the country.
Untitled-2   24
11/14/2017   7:33:18 PM


--- PAGE 25 (TEXT) ---
English  25
Installation
To secure more room for storage in the freezer compartment
Remove one or more optional accessories such as cool pack(s), shelf or shelves, twist 
ice maker(s), ice storage bins and their supports, all of which can be removed manually 
without a tool.
•	 These optional accessories do not affect thermal and mechanical performance.
•	 A declared storage volume of the freezer is based on the nonexistence of those optional 
accessories.
•	 To remove both ice makers, remove the right-handed one first (applicable to Ice Max 
models).
•	 For best energy efficiency, make sure all of shelves, drawers, and baskets are placed in 
their original position.
Load limit indicator (applicable models only)
The refrigerator has a load limit indicator 
on the top right side of the freezer 
compartment.
CAUTION
•	 Do not put or keep food items over the 
load limit indicator. Otherwise, energy 
efficiency may be affected.
Untitled-2   25
11/14/2017   7:33:19 PM


--- PAGE 26 (TEXT) ---
Installation
English
26 
Installation
Step-by-step installation
STEP  1  Select a site
Site requirements:
•	 Solid, level surface without carpeting or flooring that may obstruct ventilation
•	 Away from direct sunlight
•	 Adequate room for opening and closing the door
•	 Away from a heat source
•	 Room for maintenance and servicing
•	 Temperature range: between 10 °C and 43 °C
Effective temperature range
The refrigerator is designed to operate normally in the temperature range specified by its 
class rating.
Class
Symbol
Ambient Temperature range (°C)
IEC 62552 (ISO 15502)
ISO 8561
Extended Temperate
SN
+10 to +32
+10 to +32
Temperate
N
+16 to +32
+16 to +32
Subtropical
ST
+16 to +38
+18 to +38
Tropical
T
+16 to +43
+18 to +43
NOTE
The cooling performance and power consumption of the refrigerator may be affected by 
the ambient temperature, the door-opening frequency, and the location of the refrigerator. 
We recommend adjusting the temperature settings as appropriate.
Untitled-2   26
11/14/2017   7:33:19 PM


--- PAGE 27 (TEXT) ---
English  27
Installation
Clearance
See the pictures and table below for space requirements for installation.
01
02
Model
A
B
C
RT32/37
1221
1040
135°
RT29/34
1221
1040
135°
(unit: mm)
01	100 mm
02	50 mm
03	at least 50 mm
B
C
A
03
03
Untitled-2   27
11/14/2017   7:33:19 PM


--- PAGE 28 (TEXT) ---
Installation
English
28 
Installation
STEP  2  Flooring
•	 The surface to install the refrigerator 
must support a fully loaded refrigerator, 
or approximately 90 kg.
•	 To protect the floor, put a large piece 
of cardboard on each leg of the 
refrigerator.
•	 Once the refrigerator is in its final 
position, do not move it unless 
necessary to protect the floor. If you 
have to, use a thick paper or cloth such 
as old carpets along the movement path.
STEP  3  Adjust the levelling feet
Level the refrigerator by manually 
adjusting the levelling feet. Turn the 
levelling feet clockwise to lower the 
position, or turn counter clockwise to raise. 
For safety reasons, adjust the front side a 
little higher than the rear side.
CAUTION
Before moving the refrigerator, make sure 
to turn the levelling feet counter clockwise 
so that the bottom of the refrigerator at 
least 66 mm from the floor.
Untitled-2   28
11/14/2017   7:33:19 PM


--- PAGE 29 (TEXT) ---
English  29
Installation
STEP  4  Initial settings
By completing the following steps, the refrigerator should be fully functioning.
1.	 Plug the power cord into the wall socket to turn the refrigerator on.
2.	 Open the door, and check if the interior light lights up.
3.	 Set the temperature to the coldest, and wait for about an hour. Then, the freezer will be 
slightly chilled, and the motor will run smoothly.
4.	 Wait until the refrigerator reaches the set temperature. Now the refrigerator is ready 
for use.
STEP  5  Final check
When installation is complete, confirm that:
•	 The refrigerator is plugged into an electrical outlet and grounded properly.
•	 The refrigerator is installed on a flat, level surface with a reasonable clearance from the 
wall or the cabinet.
•	 The refrigerator is level and is sitting firmly on the floor.
•	 The door opens and closes freely, and the interior light turns on automatically when you 
open the door.
Untitled-2   29
11/14/2017   7:33:19 PM


--- PAGE 30 (TEXT) ---
English
30 
Operations
Feature panel
Button type
01
02
03
01
02
03
01	Freezer / Power Freeze
02	Freezer Convert / Ice 
On/Off (applicable 
models only)
03	Fridge / Power Cool
Operations
Untitled-2   30
11/14/2017   7:33:20 PM


--- PAGE 31 (TEXT) ---
English  31
Operations
01  Freezer / Power Freeze
Freezer
The Freezer button can be used to set the freezer temperature 
between -15 °C and -23 °C (default: -19 °C).
Each time you press the button, the temperature changes in this 
sequence:
-23 °C  -15 °C  -17 °C  -19 °C  -21 °C  -23 °C
CAUTION
•	 To prevent system failure or food spoiling, do not set the 
temperature to -15 °C in summer (above 35 °C).
•	 Do not store glass bottles containing liquid in the freezer. Glass 
bottles will crack or break into pieces when the liquid freezes.
Power Freeze
Power Freeze speeds up the freezing process at maximum fan speed. 
The freezer keeps running at full speed for several hours and then 
returns to the previous temperature.
•	 To activate Power Freeze, press and hold Freezer for 3 seconds. 
The corresponding indicator (
) lights up, and the refrigerator will 
speed up the cooling process for you.
•	 To deactivate, press and hold Freezer again for 3 seconds. The 
freezer returns to the previous temperature setting.
•	 To freeze large amounts of food, activate Power Freeze for at least 
20 hours before putting food in the freezer.
•	 The freezer keeps running at full speed for 50 hours and then 
returns to the previous temperature.
NOTE
Using Power Freeze increases power consumption. Make sure you 
turn it off and return to the previous temperature if you do not intend 
to use it.
Untitled-2   31
11/14/2017   7:33:20 PM


--- PAGE 32 (TEXT) ---
Operations
English
32 
Operations
02  Freezer Convert / Ice On/Off (applicable models only)
Freezer Convert
You can use the entire refrigerator with Fridge mode, or turn off the 
freezer.
To change the default freezer mode, press and hold Freezer Convert 
for 3 seconds to enter the selection mode. Then, press Freezer Convert 
to select a desired mode.
The mode changes in this sequence: Fridge  Off  Freezer  Off  
Fridge setting mode.
•	 If you select Fridge, the Fridge indicator turns on. Power Freeze 
will be deactivated if active, and Ice On will turn off if enabled.
•	 If you select Off, the Off indicator turns on. The freezer will be 
turned off.
•	 If you select the Freezer setting mode, the freezer temperature 
indicators turn on for your selection. The default freezer 
temperature is -19 °C.
Your changes will be set and activated after 10 seconds. To cancel or 
change the mode again, press and hold Freezer Convert again for 3 
seconds. Then, follow the instructions as mentioned above.
NOTE
•	 If you press and hold Freezer Convert for 3 seconds in Freezer 
mode, the refrigerator switches to Fridge mode and you can select 
a mode (selection mode).
•	 If you press and hold Freezer Convert for 3 seconds in other 
modes, the refrigerator switches to selection mode where you can 
press Freezer Convert to select a different mode.
•	 When refrigeration or freezing functions are at 'Off mode', the 
temperature of the fridge or freezer remains under 15 °C to 
prevent mold and odors, using low electricity.
•	 Fridge or Freezer cannot be powered off independently. 
•	 Do not store food or beverage in refrigerator when refrigeration 
or freezing functions are at 'Off mode'. 15 °C is not cool enough to 
prevent spoilage.
WARNING
•	 Do not put glass bottles containing liquid in the freezer. When cancelling Freezer 
Convert, the glass bottles may break or burst in the freezer.
•	 Make sure to remove frozen foods from the freezer before enabling the Freezer 
Convert. Frozen foods melt and spoil as the temperature increases (Freezer mode 
changes to Fridge mode).
•	 Make sure to remove chilled foods from the freezer before disabling the Freezer 
Convert. Chilled foods may freeze as the temperature decreases (Fridge mode changes 
to Freezer mode).
NOTE
If you want to use Freezer Convert, it is strongly recommend to use plastic containers to 
store food, especially vegetables.
Untitled-2   32
11/14/2017   7:33:20 PM


--- PAGE 33 (TEXT) ---
English  33
Operations
Ice On/Off
(Applicable models only)
By default, the refrigerator is set to make ice with the corresponding 
indicator on. To disable this function, press Ice On/Off to turn it off. 
We recommend disabling the function in the following cases:
•	 The ice bucket is already full of ice.
•	 You want to save power consumption.
•	 The water tank is empty.
NOTE
If you press Freezer Convert to select Fridge or Off, the refrigerator 
enters Ice Off mode.
03  Fridge / Power Cool
Fridge
To adjust the fridge temperature, press Fridge to select the 
corresponding temperature. You can change the temperature between 
1 °C and 7 °C (default: 3 °C).
With the temperature set to 1 °C, press Fridge to turn the vacation 
indicator on. The temperature bar turns off. Press again to deactivate 
Vacation mode. The temperature bar displays 7 °C.
CAUTION
•	 In winter, do not set the temperature control to 1 °C. This may 
cause problems with the cooling performance.
•	 In summer, do not set the temperature control to 5-7 °C. This may 
also cause problems with the cooling performance.
Power Cool
Power Cool speeds up the cooling process at maximum fan speed. The 
fridge keeps running at full speed for several hours and then returns 
to the previous temperature.
•	 To activate Power Cool, press and hold Fridge for 3 seconds. The 
corresponding indicator (
) lights up, and the refrigerator will 
speed up the cooling process for you.
•	 To deactivate Power Cool, press and hold Fridge again for 3 
seconds. The fridge returns to the previous temperature setting. 
NOTE
Using Power Cool increases power consumption. Make sure you turn it 
off and return to the previous temperature if you don’t intend to use 
it.
Untitled-2   33
11/14/2017   7:33:20 PM


--- PAGE 34 (TEXT) ---
Operations
English
34 
Operations
Vacation
If you are going on vacation or a business trip, or if you do not intend 
to use the fridge for an extended time, use the Vacation mode.
•	 To activate Vacation mode, press Fridge with the 1 °C indicator 
selected. The vacation indicator (
) turns on while the display 
of the fridge temperatures will turn off. The fridge temperature 
will be controlled under 17 °C, but the freezer remains active as 
previously set.
•	 To deactivate Vacation mode, press Fridge again. The fridge 
temperature will restore the default 7 °C.
NOTE
It is strongly recommended to empty the fridge compartment and 
make sure the door is closed.
Untitled-2   34
11/14/2017   7:33:20 PM


--- PAGE 35 (TEXT) ---
English  35
Operations
Dial type
Fridge
To ensure optimal performance, we recommend setting the temperature to Optimal.
•	 To decrease the temperature for strong 
cooling, set the temperature control to 
level 4-5.
•	 To increase the temperature for weak 
cooling, set the temperature control to 
level 1-2.
CAUTION
•	 In winter, do not set the temperature control to level 4-5. This may cause problems with 
the cooling performance.
•	 In summer, do not set the temperature control to level 1-2. This may also cause 
problems with the cooling performance.
Vacation
If you are going on vacation or a business trip, or if you do not intend to use the fridge for 
an extended time, use the Vacation mode.
To activate Vacation mode, turn the fridge 
dial to select Vacation (vacation level). The 
fridge temperature will be controlled under 
17 °C, but the freezer remains active as 
previously set. The Vacation mode will be 
deactivated automatically if you adjust the 
fridge temperature.
NOTE
It is strongly recommended to empty the fridge compartment and make sure the door is 
closed.
Untitled-2   35
11/14/2017   7:33:21 PM


--- PAGE 36 (TEXT) ---
Operations
English
36 
Operations
Freezer
•	 To decrease the temperature for strong 
cooling, set the temperature control to 
level 4-5.
•	 To increase the temperature for weak 
cooling, set the temperature control to 
level 1-2.
CAUTION
•	 In winter, do not set the temperature control to level 4-5. This may cause problems with 
the cooling performance.
•	 In summer, do not set the temperature control to level 1-2. This may also cause 
problems with the cooling performance.
Fridge (Convertible)
You use the freezer as Fridge mode.
To enable Fridge mode for the freezer, turn the Freezer Temp. Control dial to a Fridge 
(Convertible) level. 
Once setup is complete, the temperature of the freezer is controlled to about 3 °C.
NOTE
It is strongly recommended to empty the fridge compartment and make sure the door is 
closed.
Untitled-2   36
11/14/2017   7:33:21 PM


--- PAGE 37 (TEXT) ---
English  37
Operations
Special features
The actual image and special functions of your refrigerator may differ, depending on the 
model and the country.
Ice making (applicable models only)
Twist ice maker
A
1.	 Open the freezer door, and slide open 
the ice tray.
2.	 Fill the tray with water up to the 
maximum level (A) marked on the inner 
rear of the tray.
3.	 Slide the tray back into position.
NOTE
The ice making time depends on your 
temperature settings.
NOTE
•	 Make sure the ice cube storage bin is in 
place under the ice tray.
•	 To dispense the ice cubes, turn the 
handle of the bin to the right to empty 
half of the ice cubes into the bin. Then, 
turn it to the left to empty the other 
half.
•	 Take out the bin by slightly twisting and 
pulling to the front.
Untitled-2   37
11/14/2017   7:33:21 PM


--- PAGE 38 (TEXT) ---
Operations
English
38 
Operations
Tray type
A
To make ice cubes, fill the tray with water 
up to the maximum level (A) marked on the 
inner rear of the tray.
To empty the ice tray, hold both ends of 
the tray and gently twist to remove the ice 
cubes.
Untitled-2   38
11/14/2017   7:33:21 PM


--- PAGE 39 (TEXT) ---
English  39
Maintenance
Handle and care
Ice tray provided models
First remove the ice tray, and then lift up 
the freezer shelf to remove.
Freezer and fridge shelves
•	 To remove a shelf, first open the door 
completely. Pull the shelf forward, lift 
up, and then pull out.
•	 When reinserting the shelf, make sure 
the “Front” label of the shelf faces 
forward.
•	 Do not attempt to tilt the shelf into 
position.
Door bin
Slightly lift up and pull out the door bin.
CAUTION
To prevent accidents, empty the door bins 
before removing.
Maintenance
Untitled-2   39
11/14/2017   7:33:22 PM


--- PAGE 40 (TEXT) ---
Maintenance
English
40 
Maintenance
Cleaning
Regularly use a dry cloth to remove all foreign substances such as dust or water from the 
power plug terminals and contact points.
1.	 Unplug the power cord of the refrigerator.
2.	 Use a moistened soft lint-free cloth or paper towel to clean the refrigerator’s interior 
and exterior.
3.	 When done, use a dry cloth or paper towel to dry well.
4.	 Plug in the power cord of the refrigerator to turn the refrigerator on.
NOTE
If you have removed any removable parts such as shelves for cleaning, refer to the overall 
layout in the What’s included section to make sure you have reinserted correctly.
WARNING
•	 Do not use benzene, thinner, or home/car detergent such as Clorox™ for cleaning 
purposes. They may damage the surface of the refrigerator and cause a fire.
•	 Do not spray water onto the refrigerator. This may cause electric shock.
•	 Do not put fingers or other objects into the dispenser hole.
Replacement
Deodorizer filter (applicable models only)
A
While holding the top and bottom sides 
of the filter case, unlock the filter case to 
reveal the deodorizer filter (A). Replace the 
filter, and then reinsert the case.
Lamps
The lamps are not user-serviceable. To replace the lamps of the refrigerator, contact a local 
Samsung service centre.
Untitled-2   40
11/14/2017   7:33:22 PM


--- PAGE 41 (TEXT) ---
English  41
Troubleshooting
If you encounter an abnormal situation with the refrigerator, first check the table below 
and try the suggestions.
General
Symptom
Action
Does not operate or 
cool.
•	 Make sure the power cord is connected properly.
•	 Make sure the temperature control is set correctly.
•	 Make sure to keep the refrigerator away from direct sunlight 
or a heat source. Failing to do so may affect the cooling 
performance.
•	 Make sure the refrigerator has enough room from the rear 
and side walls or the cabinet. Failing to do so may affect the 
cooling performance.
•	 Too much food may block the ventilation of the refrigerator. 
To keep the refrigerator in normal operation, do not put too 
much food inside.
Food in the fridge 
freezes.
•	 Check if the temperature control is set to the lowest 
temperature. If so, change the temperature to higher or 
optimal.
•	 This happens if the ambient temperature is too low. Set the 
temperature higher.
•	 Check if food containing a high portion of water is put in the 
coldest area of the fridge or near the cooling vent. If this 
happens, move the food to other shelves in the fridge.
Emits noises.
•	 Make sure the refrigerator is installed on a stable, flat 
surface.
•	 Make sure the refrigerator has enough room from the rear 
and side walls or the cabinet.
•	 Make sure to keep the refrigerator from impurities or foreign 
objects inside or underneath.
•	 The refrigerator may produce a ticking sound from inside, 
which occurs when the various removable parts contract or 
expand. This is not a system failure.
The front corners 
and sides become 
warm and form 
condensation.
•	 To prevent condensation from forming, the refrigerator 
has heat-proof piping in the front corners. If the ambient 
temperature rises, this equipment may not work effectively. 
This is not a system failure.
•	 Condensation may form on the exterior surface of the 
refrigerator if humid air comes into contact with the cool 
surface of the refrigerator.
Troubleshooting
Untitled-2   41
11/14/2017   7:33:22 PM


--- PAGE 42 (TEXT) ---
Troubleshooting
English
42 
Troubleshooting
Symptom
Action
The ice maker does 
not make ice.
•	 You must wait for 12 hours until the refrigerator makes ice.
•	 Make sure the ice maker is not stopped while making ice.
•	 Make sure the freezer is set below 0 °C (or -5 °C in warm 
ambient air).
•	 Make sure the water tank is filled with water.
The water dispenser 
is not functioning.
•	 Check if the water tank is frozen. If so, select a higher fridge 
temperature.
•	 Make sure the water tank is filled with water.
•	 Make sure the water tank is installed properly.
•	 Make sure the water filter is installed properly.
Produces a bubbling 
sound.
•	 The refrigerator makes this sound during the cooling process, 
which is normal.
A bad smell comes 
from inside the 
refrigerator.
•	 Check for any spoiled food. We recommend cleaning the 
refrigerator on a regular basis and remove any spoiled or 
suspect food items.
•	 Make sure strong smelling food is wrapped up airtight.
Frost forms on the 
interior walls.
•	 Make sure no food blocks the vents of the refrigerator. It is 
also important to arrange food items evenly for ventilation.
•	 Make sure the door is closed properly.
Condensation forms 
on the interior walls 
or around vegetables.
•	 This happens when food containing a high portion of water is 
stored uncovered, or the door has been left open for a while.
•	 Make sure food is covered or put in sealed containers.
Untitled-2   42
11/14/2017   7:33:22 PM


--- PAGE 43 (TEXT) ---
Memo
Untitled-2   43
11/14/2017   7:33:22 PM


--- PAGE 44 (TEXT) ---
Contact SAMSUNG WORLD WIDE
If you have any questions or comments relating to Samsung products, please contact the 
SAMSUNG customer care center.
Country
Contact Center
Web Site
INDIA
1800 40 SAMSUNG
(1800 40 7267864) (Toll-Free)
www.samsung.com/in/support
NEPAL
16600172667 (Toll Free for NTC Only)
9801572667
www.samsung.com/in/support
BANGLADESH
09612300300
08000300300 (Toll free)
www.samsung.com/in/support
SRI LANKA
+9411SAMSUNG (+94117267864)
+94117540540
+94115900000
www.samsung.com/in/support
This Product is RoHS compliant
DA68-03374C-00
Untitled-2   44
11/14/2017   7:33:22 PM


--- PAGE 45 (TEXT) ---
रेफ़्रिजरेटर
उपयोगकर्ता मार्गदर्शिका
फ़्री स्टैंडिंग उपकरण
Untitled-3   1
11/14/2017   7:37:06 PM


--- PAGE 46 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी
2 
सामग्रिय
सामग्रियाँ
सुरक्षा जानकारी	
3
महत्वपूर्ण सुरक्षा प्रतीक और सावधानियाँ:	
6
परिवहन और साइट के लिए गंभीर चेतावनी चिह्न	
6
महत्वपूर्ण स्थापना चेतावनियाँ	
7
स्थापना सावधानियाँ	
12
महत्वपूर्ण उपयोग चेतावनियाँ	
13
उपयोग सावधानियाँ	
18
सफ़ाई सावधानियाँ	
21
महत्वपूर्ण निपटान चेतावनियाँ	
23
उचित उपयोग के लिए अतिरिक्त युक्तियाँ	
24
यह उपकरण केवल घरेलू या इसी प्रकार के स्थानों पर उपयोग किए जाने के लिए बनाया गया है, जैसे कि	25
WEEE के बारे में निर्देश	
26
स्थापना	
27
रेफ़्रिजरेटर एक नज़र में	
27
चरण-दर-चरण स्थापना	
30
परिचालन	
34
विशेषता पैनल	
34
विशेष सुविधाएँ	
41
रखरखाव	
43
प्रबंधन और देखभाल	
43
सफ़ाई	
44
प्रतिस्थापन	
44
समस्या-निवारण	
45
सामान्य	
45
Untitled-3   2
11/14/2017   7:37:06 PM


--- PAGE 47 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  3
सुरक्षा जानकारी
•	 अपना नया Samsung रेफ़्रिजरेटर का उपयोग करने के पहले, कृपया 
इस मैन्युअल को पूरी तरह पढ़ लें ताकि यह सुनिश्चित हो सके कि 
आपको उन सुविधाओं और फ़ंक्शन के संचालन के बारे में पता है जो 
आपका नया उपकरण सुरक्षित और दक्ष तरीके से पेश करता है।
•	 यह उपकरण क्षीण शारीरिक, संवेदक या मानसिक क्षमता वाले 
व्यक्तियों (बच्चों सहित) के, या उन व्यक्तियों के उपयोग हेतु नहीं 
बनाया गया है जिनमें अनुभव और ज्ञान की कमी हो, बशर्ते उन्हें उनकी 
सुरक्षा के लिए किसी ज़िम्मेदार व्यक्ति द्वारा पर्यवेक्षण, या उपकरण के 
उपयोग संबंधी निर्देश प्रदान किया गया हो।
•	 इस उपकरण का उपयोग 8 साल या उससे बड़े बच्चों तथा क्षीण 
शारीरिक, संवेदक या मानसिक क्षमताएँ या कम अनुभव एवं ज्ञान 
वाले व्यक्तियों द्वारा किया जा सकता है बशर्ते कि उन्हें उपकरण को 
सुरक्षित तरीके से उपयोग से जुड़े पर्यवेक्षण या निर्देश प्रदान किए गए 
हैं और वे इससे उत्पन्न ख़तरों को समझते हैं। बच्चों को उपकरण के 
साथ नहीं खेलने देना चाहिए। पर्यवेक्षण के बिना बच्चों को सफाई और 
उपयोगकर्ता रखरखाव नहीं करना चाहिए।
•	 इस नियम-पुस्तिका में चेतावनी एवं महत्वपूर्ण सुरक्षा निर्देशों में घटित 
हो सकने वाली सभी संभव परिस्थितियाँ तथा स्थितियाँ नहीं शामिल हैं।
यह आपकी जिम्मेदारी है कि आप स्थापित, रखरखाव, तथा अपने 
उपकरण का संचालन करते समय सहज ज्ञान, सतर्कता एवं सावधानी 
का प्रयोग करें।
सुरक्षा जानका
Untitled-3   3
11/14/2017   7:37:06 PM


--- PAGE 48 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
4 
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 चूँकि ये निम्नलिखित संचालन निर्देश विभिन्न मॉडल पर लागू होते 
हैं, इसलिए आपके रेफ़्रिजरेटर की विशेषताएँ इस मार्गदर्शिका में वर्णित 
विशेषताओं से थोड़ी भिन्न हो सकती हैं और हो सकता है सभी चेतावनी 
चिह्न लागू न हों। अगर आपके कोई प्रश्न या शंकाएँ हैं, तो अपने 
निकटतम सर्विस सेंटर से संपर्क करें या www.samsung.com पर 
ऑनलाइन सहायता और जानकारी प्राप्त करें।
•	 R-600a या R-134a को प्रशीतक के रूप में प्रयोग किया जाता है। 
अपने रेफ़्रिजरेटर के लिए प्रशीतक के प्रकार को देखने के लिए उपकरण 
के पीछे या फ्रिज़ के अंदर रेटिंग लेबल पर कंप्रेसर लेबल को देखें। इस 
उत्पाद में (प्रशीतक R-600a) ज्वलनशील गैस निहित होने पर, इस 
उत्पाद के सुरक्षित निपटान के संबंध में अपने स्थानीय प्राधिकरण से 
संपर्क करें।
•	 प्रशीतन सर्किट में रिसाव पाए जाने की स्थिति में ज्वलनशील गैस-वायु 
मिश्रण के निर्माण से बचने के लिए, उपकरण वाले कमरे का आकार 
प्रयुक्त प्रशीतक की मात्रा पर निर्भर हो सकता है।
•	 क्षति के लक्षण इंगित करने वाले उपकरण को कभी आरंभ न करें। 
अगर कोई शंका है, तो अपने डीलर से परामर्श लें। उपकरण के अंदर 
R-600a के प्रत्येक 8 g प्रशीतक  के लिए 1m3 आकार का कमरा 
होना चाहिये।
आपके व्यक्तिगत उपकरण में रेफ़्रिजरेंट की मात्रा उपकरण के भीतर 
लगी पहचान प्लेट पर दिखाई गई है।
Untitled-3   4
11/14/2017   7:37:06 PM


--- PAGE 49 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  5
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 पाइपों से फुहार के रूप में बाहर छलकने वाले रेफ़्रिजरेंट के कारण 
आग लग सकती है या आँखों को चोट पहुँच सकती है। जब पाइप 
से रेफ़्रिजरेंट रिस रहा हो, तो अनावृत ज्वाला से बचें और किसी भी 
ज्वलनशील पदार्थ को उत्पाद से दूर ले जाएँ और कमरे में तुरंत हवा का 
संचार करें।
-	 ऐसा करने में विफल रहने पर आग लग सकती है या विस्फोट हो 
सकता है।
•	 अधिकृत सेवा कर्मचारी के अलावा अन्य व्यक्तियों के लिए इस उपकरण 
की मरम्मत करना जोख़िमपूर्ण हो सकता है।
चेतावनी: आग लग सकती है / ज्वलनशील सामग्रियाँ
Untitled-3   5
11/14/2017   7:37:06 PM


--- PAGE 50 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
6 
सुरक्षा जानका
महत्वपूर्ण सुरक्षा प्रतीक और सावधानियाँ:
चेतावनी
खतरे या असुरक्षित व्यवहार जिनसे गंभीर निजी चोट लग सकती है या 
मृत्यु हो सकती है।
सावधान
खतरे या असुरक्षित व्यवहार जिनसे हल्की निजी चोट लग सकती है या 
संपत्ति की क्षति हो सकती है।
ये चेतावनी संकेत आपको और दूसरों को चोट लगने से बचाने के लिए यहाँ 
मौजूद हैं।
कृपया उनका सावधानी से पालन करें।
इस खंड को पढ़ने के बाद, भावी संदर्भ के लिए उसे किसी सुरक्षित जगह 
पर रखें।
परिवहन और साइट के लिए गंभीर चेतावनी चिह्न
चेतावनी
•	 उपकरण का परिवहन और स्थापना करते समय यह सुनिश्चित करने 
के लिए सावधानी बरती जानी चाहिए कि प्रशीतन सर्किट का कोई भाग 
क्षतिग्रस्त तो नहीं है।
-	 पाइप से रिसने वाले रेफ़्रिजरेंट से आग लग सकती है या आँखों को 
चोट पहुँच सकती है। यदि रिसाव का पता लगता है, तो अग्नि या 
प्रज्वलन के संभावित स्रोत से बचें और उपकरण वाले कमरे में कुछ 
समय तक हवा आने दें।
Untitled-3   6
11/14/2017   7:37:06 PM


--- PAGE 51 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  7
सुरक्षा जानका
-	 इस उपकरण में बहुत कम मात्रा में इसोब्यूटेन प्रशीतलन (R-600a) 
मौजूद होता है, यह अत्यधिक प्राकृतिक पर्यावरण अनुकूलता के साथ 
एक प्राकृतिक गैस है, हालांकि, यह दहनशील भी है। उपकरण के 
स्थानांतरण एवं स्थापना के दौरान प्रशीतन सर्किट के किसी भी भाग 
का क्षतिग्रस्त न होना सुनिश्चित करने के लिए सावधानी बरतनी 
चाहिए।
महत्वपूर्ण स्थापना चेतावनियाँ
चेतावनी
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर को आर्द्रता वाले स्थान पर या किसी ऐसे स्थान पर स्थापित 
न करें जहाँ यह पानी के संपर्क में आ सकता हो।
-	 विद्युतीय हिस्सों पर खराब विद्युत-रोधन के कारण बिजली के 
झटके या आग लग सकती है।
•	 इस रेफ़्रिजरेटर को सीधे सूर्यप्रकाश में न रखें या इसे स्टोव, रूम हीटर 
या अन्य उपकरणों की गर्मी से दूर रखें।
•	 एकाधिक पावर स्ट्रिप में अनेक उपकरणों के प्लग न लगाएँ। रेफ़्रिजरेटर 
का प्लग हमेशा अपने बिजली के आउटलेट में लगा होना चाहिए 
जिसकी वोल्टेज रेटिंग रेफ़्रिजरेटर की रेटिंग प्लेट में सूचीबद्ध वोल्टेज से 
मेल खाती हो।
-	 इससे सर्वश्रेष्ठ कार्य-निष्पादन मिलता है और इससे घर का वायरिंग 
सर्किट ओवरलोड होने से भी बचता है, जिससे अत्यधिक गर्म तारों 
से आग का खतरा हो सकता है।
•	 यदि दीवार का सॉकेट ढीला हो, तो उसमें पावर प्लग न लगाएँ।
-	 इससे बिजली के झटके या आग का जोखिम होता है।
Untitled-3   7
11/14/2017   7:37:06 PM


--- PAGE 52 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
8 
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 ऐसे किसी बिजली की तार का उपयोग न करें जिसकी पूरी लंबाई या 
किसी छोर में दरारें या घर्षण क्षति नजर आ रही हो।
•	 बिजली के तार को अधिक न मोड़ें या इस पर भारी चीजें न रख दें।
•	 बिजली के तार को नहीं खींचे या बहुत अधिक नहीं मोड़ें
•	 बिजली के तार को मरोड़ें या बाँधें नहीं।
•	 बिजली की तार को धातु की बनी हुई किसी वस्तु पर ना टाँगे, बिजली 
की तार पर कोई भारी वस्तु को ना रखें, बिजली की तार को वस्तुओं के 
अंदर ना डालें, या बिजली की तार को उपकरण के पीछे के स्थान में ना 
दबाएं
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर को एक स्थान से दूसरे स्थान पर ले जाने के समय, बिजली 
की तार के मुड़ने या क्षतिग्रस्त नहीं होने का ध्यान रखें।
-	 इसके कारण बिजली का झटका या आग लग सकती है।
•	 अपने रेफ़्रिजरेटर को बिजली की तार खींच कर कभी भी अनप्लग 
न करें। प्लग को हमेशा सख्ती से पकड़ें और आउटलेट से सीध में 
निकालें।
-	 तार में क्षति के कारण शॉर्ट-सर्किट हो सकता है, आग और/या 
बिजली का झटका लग सकता है।
•	 इस उपकरण में विस्फोटक पदार्थों जैसे कि ऐरोसॉल के डिब्बे को 
ज्वलनशील प्रणोदक के साथ नहीं रखें।
•	 इस उपकरण को किसी हीटर या ज्वलनशील सामग्री के पास स्थापित 
न करें
•	 इस उपकरण को किसी ऐसे स्थान पर स्थापित न करें जहाँ गैस रिस 
सकती हो।
-	 इसके कारण बिजली का झटका या आग लग सकती है।
Untitled-3   8
11/14/2017   7:37:06 PM


--- PAGE 53 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  9
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 यह रेफ़्रिजरेटर आपके द्वारा उपयोग होने के पहले इस पुस्तिका में 
दिए निर्देशों के अनुसार उचित तरीके से अवस्थित और स्थापित होना 
चाहिए।
•	 तार को नीचे लटकाकर बिजली के प्लग को उचित स्थिति में कनेक्ट 
करें।
-	 अगर आप बिजली के प्लग को उल्टा लगाते हैं, तो तार कट सकता 
है और आग या बिजली का झटका लग सकता है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के पिछले हिस्से द्वारा बिजली के प्लग का कुचलना या 
क्षतिग्रस्त न होना सुनिश्चित करें।
•	 पैकिंग सामग्री को बच्चों की पहुँच से दूर रखें।
-	 यदि कोई बच्चा/बच्ची अपने सिर पर पैकिंग सामग्री रख लेता/लेती 
है तो दम घुटने के कारण मृत्यु का खतरा होता है।
•	 उपकरण इस प्रकार रखना चाहिए कि स्थापना के बाद प्लग तक 
आसानी से पहुँचा जा सके।
-	 ऐसा करने में विफल रहने पर बिजली के रिसाव के कारण बिजली 
का झटका या आग लग सकती है।
•	 इस उपकरण को किसी नम, तेलीय या धूलयुक्त स्थान, किसी ऐसे 
स्थान पर न रखें जहाँ सीधा सूर्यप्रकाश और पानी (वर्षा की बूंदों) आता 
हो।
-	 विद्युतीय हिस्सों में खराब विद्युत-रोधन के कारण बिजली के झटके 
या आग लग सकती है।
•	 अगर रेफ़्रिजरेटर में धूल या पानी है, तो बिजली के प्लग को निकाल दें 
और अपने Samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स सर्विस सेंटर से संपर्क करें।
-	 अन्यथा, आग लगने का जोखिम बना रहता है।
Untitled-3   9
11/14/2017   7:37:06 PM


--- PAGE 54 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
10 
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 उपकरण के ऊपर खड़े न हों या उपकरण पर वस्तुएँ (जैसे धुलने वाले 
कपड़े, जली मोमबत्ती, जली सिगरेट, थालियाँ, रसायन, धातु की वस्तुएँ 
आदि) न रखें।
-	 इससे बिजली का झटका, आग लग सकती है, उत्पाद में समस्याएँ 
हो सकती हैं या चोट लग सकती है।
•	 आरंभ में उत्पाद को प्लग इन करने के पहले सभी सुरक्षात्मक 
प्लास्टिक परत निकाल दी जानी चाहिए।
•	 बच्चों पर निगरानी रखी जानी चाहिए ताकि यह सुनिश्चित हो सके कि 
वे दरवाजा समायोजन के लिए प्रयुक्त स्रैप रिंग या वाटर ट्यूब क्लिप 
के साथ न खेलें।
-	 यदि बच्चा स्रैप रिंग या वाटर ट्यूब क्लिप निगल जाता है तो दम 
घुटने से मौत का खतरा होता है। स्रैप रिंग या वाटर ट्यूब क्लिप को 
बच्चों की पहुँच से दूर रखें।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर सुरक्षित तरीके से ग्राउंड किया गया होना चाहिए।
-	 कोई जाँच-पड़ताल या उपकरण के किसी हिस्से की मरम्मत का 
प्रयास करने के पहले हमेशा सुनिश्चित कर लें कि आपने रेफ़्रिजरेटर 
को ग्राउंड कर लिया है। बिजली के लीकेज के कारण बिजली के 
गंभीर झटके लग सकते हैं।
•	 गैस पाइप, टेलीफोन लाइन, या अन्य संभावित बिजली-संवाहकों का 
उपयोग इलेक्ट्रिकल ग्राउंड की तरह कभी न करें।
-	 बिजली लीकेज रोकने या रेफ़्रिजरेटर से वर्तमान लीकेज के कारण 
बिजली के झटके से बचने के लिए आपको रेफ़्रिजरेटर को ग्राउंड कर 
देना चाहिए।
-	 इससे बिजली का झटका, आग लग सकती है, विस्फोट हो सकता है 
या उत्पाद में समस्याएँ हो सकती हैं।
Untitled-3   10
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 55 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  11
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 पावर प्लग को वॉल सॉकेट में ठीक से लगाएँ। खराब पावर प्लग, खराब 
पावर कॉर्ड या ढीले वॉल सॉकेट का उपयोग न करें।
-	 इसके कारण बिजली का झटका या आग लग सकती है।
•	 अगर बिजली का तार क्षतिग्रस्त हो, तो इसे निर्माता या उसके किसी 
सर्विस एजेंट द्वारा तत्काल बदलवाएँ।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर पर लगा फ्यूज़ योग्य तकनीशियन या सर्विस कंपनी द्वारा 
ही बदला जाना चाहिए।
-	 ऐसा करने में विफल रहने पर बिजली का झटका या निजी चोट लग 
सकती है।
•	 उपकरण को रखते समय सुनिश्चित करें कि बिजली की तार उलझे हुए 
या क्षतिग्रस्त नहीं हों।
•	 उपकरण के पीछे एक से अधिक पोर्टेबल सॉकेट वाले आउटलेट या 
पोर्टेबल पावर सप्लाई को नहीं होने चाहिए।
Untitled-3   11
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 56 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
12 
सुरक्षा जानका
स्थापना सावधानियाँ
सावधान
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के आसपास पर्याप्त स्थान छोड़ें और इसे सपाट सतह पर 
स्थापित करें।
-	 उपकरण अंतः क्षेत्र या समन्वायोजन संरचना में मौजूद वायुसंचार 
स्थान में किसी भी तरह की रूकावटों को न आने दें।
•	 उपकरण की स्थापना के बाद खाद्य पदार्थ लोड करने और उपकरण को 
चालू करने से पहले 2 घंटे के लिए उसे खड़ा रखें।
•	 हम पुरजोर अनुशंसा करते हैं कि आप किसी योग्यता प्राप्त तकनीशियन 
या सर्विस कंपनी से रेफ़्रिजरेटर स्थापित करवाएँ।
-	 ऐसा करने में विफल रहने पर बिजली का झटका लग सकता है, 
आग लग सकती है, विस्फोट हो सकता है, उत्पाद में समस्याएँ हो 
सकती हैं या चोट लग सकती है।
•	 किसी भी एक दरवाज़े पर अधिक भार होने से रेफ़्रिजरेटर गिर सकता है, 
जिसके कारण उसे क्षति पहुँच सकती है।
Untitled-3   12
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 57 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  13
सुरक्षा जानका
महत्वपूर्ण उपयोग चेतावनियाँ
चेतावनी
•	 गीले हाथों से बिजली का प्लग बिजली के सॉकेट में नहीं लगाएँ।
-	 इसके कारण बिजली का झटका लग सकता है।
•	 उपकरण के शीर्ष पर सामान न रखें।
-	 जब आप दरवाजा खोलते या बंद करते हैं, तो सामान गिर सकते हैं 
तथा उससे व्यक्तिगत रूप से चोट लग सकती है और/या उपकरण 
क्षतिग्रस्त हो सकता है।
•	 हाथों, पैरों या धातु की वस्तुओं (जैसे चॉपस्टिक, आदि) को रेफ़्रिजरेटर 
के निचले या पिछले भाग में न डालें।
-	 इसके कारण बिजली का झटका या चोट लग सकती है।
-	 किसी भी नुकीले किनारे से व्यक्तिगत रूप से चोट लग सकती है।
•	 गीले हाथों से फ़्रीजर के अंदरूनी दीवारों या फ़्रीजर में रखे उत्पादों को न 
छुएँ।
-	 इससे शीतदंश हो सकता है।
•	 पानी से भरे पात्र को उपकरण पर न रखें।
-	 इसके छलकने से आग या बिजली के झटके का खतरा हो सकता है।
•	 फ़्रीज में अस्थिर या ज्वलनशील वस्तुओं या पदार्थों (बेन्ज़ीन, थिनर, 
प्रोपेन गैस, अल्कोहल ईथर, LP गैस और ऐसे अन्य उत्पाद) न रखें।
-	 यह रेफ़्रिजरेटर केवल भोजन के भंडारण के लिए है।
-	 इसके कारण आग लग सकती है या विस्फोट हो सकता है।
Untitled-3   13
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 58 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
14 
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 बच्चों की देखरेख की जानी चाहिए ताकि उनका उपकरण के साथ न 
खेलना सुनिश्चित किया जा सके।
-	 उंगलियों को “पिंच-पॉइंट” क्षेत्रों से दूर रखें। दरवाज़ों और कैबिनेट 
के बीच का स्थान आवश्यक रूप से छोटा होता है। दरवाजा खोलते 
समय सावधान रहें यदि बच्चे आसपास हों।
•	 बच्चों को दरवाज़ा या दरवाज़ा
 पात्र से लटकने न दें। गंभीर चोट लग 
सकती है।
•	 बच्चों को रेफ़्रिजरेटर के भीतर जाने नहीं दें। वे अंदर फंस सकते हैं।
•	 अपने हाथों को उपकरण के नीचे तल क्षेत्र में डालें।
-	 किसी भी नुकीले किनारे से व्यक्तिगत चोट लग सकती है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर में औषधीय उत्पादों, वैज्ञानिक सामग्रियाँ, या तापमान-संवेदी 
उत्पादों को न रखें।
-	 ऐसे उत्पादों को रेफ़्रिजरेटर में नहीं रखा जाना चाहिए जिनके लिए 
सख्त तापमान नियंत्रणों की आवश्यकता होती है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर/फ़्रीजर के अंदर बिजली के उपकरण को न रखें या उनका 
उपयोग न करें, बशर्ते वे निर्माता द्वारा अनुशंसित श्रेणी के हों।
•	 अगर आपको औषधि या धूएँ की गंध आती है, तो तुरंत बिजली का 
प्लग निकाल दें और अपने Samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स सर्विस सेंटर से 
संपर्क करें।
•	 अगर रेफ़्रिजरेटर में धूल या पानी है, तो बिजली के प्लग को निकाल दें 
और अपने Samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स सर्विस सेंटर से संपर्क करें।
-	 अन्यथा, आग लगने का जोखिम बना रहता है।
•	 बच्चों को ड्रॉअर पर पैर रखने न दें।
-	 ड्रॉअर टूट सकता है और वे फिसल सकते हैं।
Untitled-3   14
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 59 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  15
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 जब रेफ़्रिजरेटर के पास कोई न हो तो उसके दरवाज़ों को खुला न छोड़ें 
और बच्चों को रेफ़्रिजरेटर के भीतर प्रवेश न करने दें।
•	 शिशुओं और बच्चों को दराज के भीतर न जाने दें।
-	 इसके कारण फंसने की वजह से दम घुटने से मृत्यु हो सकती है या 
निजी चोट लग सकती है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर को खाद्य पदार्थों से ज्यादा न भर दें।
-	 जब आप दरवाजा खोलते हैं, तो कोई सामान गिर सकता है तथा 
उससे व्यक्तिगत रूप से चोट लग सकती है या सामग्री क्षतिग्रस्त 
हो सकती है।
•	 उपकरण की सतह पर कीटनाशक जैसे ज्वलनशील पदार्थ का स्प्रे न 
करें।
-	 मानवों के लिए खतरनाक होने के साथ-साथ, इसके परिणामस्वरूप 
बिजली का झटका, आग लग सकती है, या उत्पाद में समस्याएँ आ 
सकती हैं।
•	 किन्हीं तापमान संवेदी पदार्थों जैसे ज्वलनशील स्प्रे, ज्वलनशील वस्तुएँ, 
सूखी बर्फ, दवाई या रसायनों का उपयोग रेफ़्रिजरेटर के पास न करें या 
उन्हें रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदर न रखें।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदरूनी हिस्से को सूखाने के लिए हेयर ड्रायर का उपयोग 
न करें। दुर्गंध हटाने के लिए रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदर जलती मोमबत्ती न 
रखें।
-	 इसके कारण बिजली का झटका या आग लग सकती है।
•	 पानी की टंकी, बर्फ की ट्रे और पानी की क्यूब को केवल पीने योग्य 
पानी (मिनरल वॉटर या परिष्कृत पानी) से ही भरें।
-	 टंकी में चाय, जूस या खेल संबंधी पेय-पदार्थ न भरें, इससे 
रेफ़्रिजरेटर को क्षति पहुँच सकती है।
Untitled-3   15
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 60 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
16 
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 उपकरण के ऊपर खड़े न हों या उपकरण पर वस्तुएँ (जैसे धुलने वाले 
कपड़े, जली मोमबत्ती, जली सिगरेट, थालियाँ, रसायन, धातु की वस्तुएँ 
आदि) न रखें। इससे बिजली का झटका, आग लग सकती है, उत्पाद 
में समस्याएँ हो सकती हैं या चोट लग सकती है। पानी से भरे पात्र को 
उपकरण पर न रखें।
-	 इसके छलकने से आग या बिजली के झटके का खतरा हो सकता है।
•	 विहिमीकरण प्रक्रिया को तेज़ करने के लिए निर्माता द्वारा अनुशंसित 
मशीनी उपकरण या किसी दूसरे उपाय के अलावा किसी अन्य उपकरण 
या उपाय का उपयोग न करें।
•	 प्रशीतक सर्किट को क्षति न पहुँचाएँ।
•	 UV LED लैंप को लंबे समय तक सीधे न घूरें।
-	 इससे पराबैंगनी किरणों के कारण आँखों को नुकसान हो सकता है।
•	 फ़्रीज शेल्फ़ उल्टा न लगाएँ। शेल्फ़ स्टॉपर शायद काम न करे।
-	 इससे काँच की शेल्फ के गिरने के कारण निजी चोट लग सकती है।
•	 उंगलियों को “पिंच-पॉइंट” क्षेत्रों से दूर रखें। दरवाज़ों और कैबिनेट के 
बीच का स्थान आवश्यक रूप से छोटा होता है। दरवाजा खोलते समय 
सावधान रहें यदि बच्चे आसपास हों।
•	 यदि गैस रिसाव का पता लगता है, तो अग्नि या प्रज्वलन के संभावित 
स्रोत से बचें और उपकरण वाले कमरे में कुछ समय तक हवा आने दें।
-	 उपकरण या बिजली के तार को न छूएँ।
-	 किसी हवादार पंखे का उपयोग न करें।
-	 एक चिंगारी से विस्फोट या आग लग सकती है।
•	 केवल निर्माता या इसके सर्विस एजेंटों द्वारा प्रदान की गई LED लैंप 
का ही उपयोग करें।
•	 बोतलों को एकदम सटाकर रखना चाहिए ताकि वे गिर न जाएँ।
Untitled-3   16
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 61 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  17
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 यह उत्पाद घरेलू परिवेश में केवल खाद्य पदार्थ के भंडारण के लिए 
नियत है।
•	 स्वयं रेफ़्रिजरेटर की मरम्मत, उसके पुर्जे खोलने या उसे रूपांतरित करने 
का प्रयास न करें।
-	 अनधिकृत रूपांतरण से सुरक्षा संबंधी समस्याएँ हो सकती हैं। 
अनधिकृत रूपांतरण को पूर्णतया पलटने के लिए, हम पार्ट्स और 
श्रम की पूरी लागत लेंगे।
•	 मानक फ्यूज़ के अलावा किसी अन्य फ्यूज़ (जैसे ताँबे, स्टील के तार, 
आदि) का उपयोग न करें।
•	 यदि आपके रेफ़्रिजरेटर को मरम्मत या पुनः स्थापित करने की जरूरत 
है, तो अपने निकटतम सर्विस सेंटर से संपर्क करें।
-	 ऐसा करने में विफल रहने पर बिजली का झटका लग सकता है, 
आग लग सकती है, उत्पाद में समस्याएँ हो सकती हैं या चोट लग 
सकती है।
•	 यदि आंतरिक या बाहरी LED लैंप खराब हो जाता है, तो अपने 
निकटतम सर्विस सेंटर से संपर्क करें।
•	 यदि रेफ़्रिजरेटर से जलने की गंध या धुआँ निकलता है, तो रेफ़्रिजरेटर 
को तत्काल अनप्लग करें और अपने Samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स सर्विस 
सेंटर से संपर्क करें।
-	 ऐसा करने में विफल रहने पर बिजली या आग के जोखिम हो सकते 
हैं।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदरुनी लैंप को बदलने से पहले पावर प्लग को सॉकेट से 
बाहर निकाल लें
-	 अन्यथा, बिजली के झटके का जोखिम बना रहता है।
Untitled-3   17
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 62 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
18 
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 यदि आपको गैर-LED लाइट बदलने में परेशानी होती है, तो Samsung 
सर्विस सेंटर से संपर्क करें।
•	 अगर उत्पाद में LED लैम्प लगे हैं, तो स्वयं लैंप कवर और LED 
लैम्प को न खोलें।
-	 किसी Samsung सर्विस सेंटर से संपर्क करें।
•	 पावर प्लग को वॉल सॉकेट में ठीक से लगाएँ।
•	 खराब पावर प्लग, पावर कॉर्ड या ढीले वॉल सॉकेट का उपयोग न करें।
-	 इसके कारण बिजली का झटका या आग लग सकती है।
उपयोग सावधानियाँ
सावधान
•	 उन जमे भोजनों को फिर न जमाएँ जो पूरी तरह पिघल चुकें हैं। 
कार्बोनेट युक्त या गैस युक्त पेय पदार्थों को फ़्रीजर कंपार्टमेंट में न रखें। 
बोतल या काँच के पात्रों को फ़्रीजर में न रखें।
-	 जब अंदर रखा पदार्थ जम जाता है, तो काँच टूट सकता है और 
निजी चोट लग सकती है।
•	 केवल रेफ़्रिजरेटर के साथ प्रदान किए गए आइस मेकर का उपयोग करें।
•	 उत्पाद से सर्वश्रेष्ठ प्रदर्शन पाने के लिए:
-	 खाद्य पदार्थ को रेफ़्रिजरेटर के पिछले भाग में निकासों के बिल्कुल 
निकट न रखें क्योंकि इससे रेफ़्रिजरेटर कंपार्टमेंट में स्वतंत्र वायु 
संचार बाधित हो सकता है।
-	 भोजन को रेफ़्रिजरेटर में रखने से पहले उचित तरीके से ढकें या 
किसी वायुरुद्ध पात्र में रखें।
Untitled-3   18
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 63 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  19
सुरक्षा जानका
-	 ग्लास बोतल या कार्बोनेट किए गए पेय-पदार्थों को फ़्रीजर में न 
रखें। वे जम सकते हैं और टूट सकते हैं। पेय पदार्थों के टूटे पात्रों के 
कारण चोट लग सकती है।
-	 कृपया फ़्रोजन सामानों के अधिकतम संग्रहण समय और समापन 
तिथियों का ध्यान रखें।
•	 ग्लास या बोतल या कार्बोनेट किए गए पेय-पदार्थों को फ़्रीजर में न रखें।
-	 पात्र जम या टूट सकता है और इससे चोट लग सकती है।
•	 कार्बोनेट युक्त या गैस युक्त पेय पदार्थों को फ़्रीजर कंपार्टमेंट में न 
रखें। बोतल या काँच के पात्रों को फ़्रीजर में न रखें।
-	 जब अंदर रखा पदार्थ जम जाता है, तो काँच टूट सकता है और 
निजी चोट लग सकती है और संपत्ति को क्षति हो सकती है।
•	 सर्विस वारंटी और रूपांतरण।
-	 इस तैयार उपकरण पर तृतीय पक्ष द्वारा किया गया कोई भी 
परिवर्तन या रूपांतरण Samsung वारंटी सेवा में शामिल नहीं 
होता है, और न ही तृतीय पक्ष के रूपांतरणों से होने वाली सुरक्षा 
समस्याओं के लिए Samsung ज़िम्मेदार है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के भीतर हवा के निकासी छिद्र अवरूद्ध न करें।
-	 अगर वायु निकास अवरोधित हो जाते हैं, विशेष रूप से प्लास्टिक 
बैग से, तो रेफ़्रिजरेटर आवश्यकता से अधिक ठंडा हो सकता है। 
अगर कूलिंग अवधि बहुत देर तक बनी रहती है, तो पानी का 
फ़िल्टर टूट सकता है और पानी रिस सकता है।
•	 केवल रेफ़्रिजरेटर के साथ प्रदान किए गए आइस-मेकर का उपयोग करें।
•	 भीतर से अधिक नमी को पोंछ दें और दरवाज़ों को खुला छोड़ दें।
-	 अन्यथा, दुर्गंध और फफूँद उत्पन्न हो सकती है।
Untitled-3   19
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 64 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
20 
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 यदि रेफ़्रिजरेटर को बिजली आपूर्ति से डिस्कनेक्ट कर दिया गया है, तो 
वापस प्लग इन करने के लिए आपको कम से कम पाँच मिनट तक 
प्रतीक्षा करना चाहिए।
•	 जब रेफ़्रिजरेटर पानी से भीग जाए, तो बिजली के प्लग को निकाल दें 
और अपने Samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स सर्विस सेंटर से संपर्क करें।
•	 शीशे की सतह पर प्रहार न करें या अत्यधिक बल प्रयोग न करें।
-	 टूटे काँच से निजी चोट और/या संपत्ति को क्षति हो सकती है।
•	 पानी की टंकी और आइस क्यूब ट्रे को केवल पीने योग्य पानी (टैप का 
पानी, मिनरल वॉटर, या विशुद्ध पानी) से भरें।
-	 टंकी को चाय या स्पोर्ट्स ड्रिंक से न भरें। इससे रेफ़्रिजरेटर को 
नुकसान पहुँच सकता है।
•	 सावधान रहें कि यह आफकी 
उंगलियों पर न लगे।
•	 अगर फ़्रीजर और रेफ़्रिजरेटर के दरवाज़े 2 सेकंड या अधिक समय के 
लिए खुले छोड़े जाते हैं, तो फ़्रीजर और रेफ़्रिजरेटर की लैंप बंद की जा 
सकती है।
-	 जब दरवाज़ों को बंद करके फिर से खोला जाएगा तो लैंप वापस जल 
जाएँगी।
•	 यदि रेफ़्रिजरेटर में पानी भर गया है, तो अपने निकटतम सर्विस सेंटर 
से संपर्क करें।
-	 इससे बिजली के झटके या आग का जोखिम होता है।
Untitled-3   20
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 65 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  21
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 अपने रेफ़्रिजरेटर के दरवाजे के बिन्स में वनस्पति तेल न रखें। तेल 
जम सकता है, उसका स्वाद खराब हो सकता है और उसका इस्तेमाल 
करना मुश्किल हो सकता है। इसके अलावा, खुले कंटेनर से रिसाव हो 
सकता है और टपके हुए तेल से दरवाजे के बिन में दरार पैदा हो सकती 
है। तेल के कंटेनर को खोलने के बाद, उसे अलमारी या पेंट्री के शीतल 
और छायादार स्थान में रखना उचित होता है।
-	 वनस्पति तेल के उदाहरण: जैतून का तेल, मकई का तेल, अंगूर के 
बीज का तेल, आदि।
सफ़ाई सावधानियाँ
सावधान
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदर या बाहर पानी का सीधा छिड़काव न करें।
-	 इससे आग या बिजली के झटके का खतरा होता है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदरूनी हिस्से को सूखाने के लिए हेयर ड्रायर का उपयोग 
न करें।
•	 दुर्गंध हटाने के लिए रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदर जलती मोमबत्ती न रखें।
-	 इसके कारण बिजली का झटका या आग लग सकती है।
•	 प्रदर्शन पर सफाई उत्पादों को सीधे स्प्रे न करें।
-	 प्रदर्शन पर लगे मुद्रित पत्र छूट सकते हैं।
•	 अगर कोई बाहरी पदार्थ जैसे पानी उपकरण में प्रवेश कर गया है, तो 
बिजली के प्लग को निकाल दें और अपने निकटतम सर्विस सेंटर से 
संपर्क करें।
-	 ऐसा करने में विफल रहने पर बिजली का झटका या आग लग 
सकती है।
Untitled-3   21
11/14/2017   7:37:07 PM


--- PAGE 66 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
22 
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 बिजली के प्लग से किन्हीं बाहरी पदार्थ या धूल हटाने के लिए साफ़, 
सूखे कपड़े का उपयोग करें। प्लग साफ़ करते समय गीले या नम कपड़े 
का उपयोग नहीं करें।
-	 अन्यथा, इससे आग या बिजली के झटके का खतरा होता है।
•	 उपकरण पर सीधे पानी का स्प्रे करके उसे साफ न करें।
•	 सफाई के लिए बेंजीन, थिनर, या क्लोरोक्स, क्लोराइड का उपयोग न 
करें।
-	 वे उपकरण की सतह को क्षति पहुँचा सकते हैं और आग लगा 
सकते हैं।
•	 डिस्पेंसर के छिद्र में उंगलियाँ या अन्य वस्तुएँ कभी न डालें।
-	 इससे निजी चोट लग या सामग्री की क्षति हो सकती है।
•	 सफाई या रखरखाव करने से पहले, उपकरण का प्लग दीवार के सॉकेट 
से निकाल दें।
-	 ऐसा करने में विफल रहने पर बिजली का झटका या आग लग 
सकती है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर को साफ़ करने के लिए रेफ़्रिजरेटर स्पंज या मुलायम कपड़े 
और गर्म पानी में सौम्य डिटर्जेंट का प्रयोग करें।
•	 बाहरी सतहों (दरवाजे और कैबिनेट), प्लास्टिक के हिस्सों, दरवाजे और 
इंटीरियर लाइनर और गैस्केट को खुरदुरे या रूखे क्लीनर, जैसे कि 
खिड़की के स्प्रे, मार्जक, ज्वलनशील तरल पदार्थ, म्यूरीएटिक एसिड, 
क्लीनिंग वैक्स, गाढ़े डिटर्जेंट, ब्लीच या क्लीनर का प्रयोग न करें।
-	 इससे सामग्री पर खरोंच या नुकसान हो सकता है।
•	 काँच के शेल्फ या कवर्स को ठंडे होने पर गर्म पानी से साफ़ ना करें। 
तापमान में अचानक परिवर्तन या बम्पिंग या गिरने जैसे प्रभावों से 
काँच के शेल्फ या कवर्स टूट सकते हैं।
Untitled-3   22
11/14/2017   7:37:08 PM


--- PAGE 67 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  23
सुरक्षा जानका
महत्वपूर्ण निपटान चेतावनियाँ
चेतावनी
•	 कृपया इस उत्पाद की पैकेजिंग सामग्री का निपटान पर्यावरण-अनुकूल 
तरीके से करें।
•	 निपटान से पहले सुनिश्चित करें कि रेफ़्रिजरेटर के पीछे लगा कोई भी 
पाइप क्षतिग्रस्त नहीं है।
•	 R-600a या R-134a को प्रशीतक के रूप में प्रयोग किया जाता है। 
अपने रेफ़्रिजरेटर के लिए प्रशीतक के प्रकार को देखने के लिए उपकरण 
के पीछे या फ्रिज़ के अंदर रेटिंग लेबल पर कंप्रेसर लेबल को देखें। यदि 
इस रेफ़्रिजरेटर में (प्रशीतक R-600a) ज्वलनशील गैस निहित होने पर, 
इस उत्पाद के सुरक्षित निपटान के संबंध में अपने स्थानीय प्राधिकरण 
से संपर्क करें।
•	 इस रेफ़्रिजरेटर का निपटान करते समय, दरवाज़ा/दरवाज़ा की सील, 
दरवाज़ा की सिटकनी निकाल दें ताकि छोटे बच्चे या जानवर इसके 
अंदर न फँस जाएँ। बच्चों की देखरेख की जानी चाहिए ताकि उनका 
उपकरण के साथ न खेलना सुनिश्चित किया जा सके। अंदर फँस जाने 
पर, बच्चों को चोट लग सकती है या दम घुटने से मृत्यु हो सकती है।
-	 अंदर फँसने पर बच्चों को चोट लग सकती है और दम घुटने से 
मृत्यु हो सकती है।
•	 रोधन में साइक्लोपेंटेन का उपयोग होता है। रोधन सामग्री में मौजूद 
गैसों के लिए विशेष निपटान प्रक्रिया की आवश्यकता होती है। इस 
उत्पाद के पर्यावरण की दृष्टि से सुरक्षित निपाटन के संबंध में अपने 
स्थानीय प्राधिकरणों से संपर्क करें।
Untitled-3   23
11/14/2017   7:37:08 PM


--- PAGE 68 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
24 
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 सभी पैकेजिंग सामग्रियों को बच्चों की पहुँच से दूर रखें, क्योंकि 
पैकेजिंग सामग्रियाँ बच्चों के लिए खतरनाक हो सकती हैं।
-	 यदि कोई बच्चा अपने सिर पर बैग रख लेता है, तो बच्चे का दम 
घुट सकता है।
उचित उपयोग के लिए अतिरिक्त युक्तियाँ
•	 बिजली की खराबी होने की स्थिति में, अपनी इलेक्ट्रिक कंपनी के 
स्थानीय कार्यालय को फ़ोन करके पूछें कि बिजली कितनी देर तक बंद 
रहेगी।
-	 एक या दो घंटों में सुधार ली जाने वाली अधिकतर बिजली खराबियाँ 
आपके रेफ़्रिजरेटर तापमानों को प्रभावित नहीं करेंगी। हालाँकि, 
बिजली न होने पर आपको दरवाज़ा बार-बार नहीं खोलना चाहिए।
-	 लेकिन अगर बिजली 24 घंटे से अधिक समय तक नहीं आती है, 
तो सभी फ़्रोजन खाद्य पदार्थों को निकालें और फेंक दें।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर संभवतः लगातार काम न कर सके (फ़्रोजन सामग्रियों में 
गरमाहट आ सकती है या फ़्रोजन कंपार्टमेंट में तापमान बहुत गर्म हो 
सकता है) यदि इसे किसी ऐसे स्थान पर लंबे समय के लिए रखा जाए 
जहाँ का परिवेशी वायु तापमान उस तापमान से लगातार कम हो जिसमें 
काम करने के लिए इस उपकरण को तैयार किया गया है।
•	 विशेष खाद्य पदार्थों के मामले में, उन्हें प्रशीतन के तहत रखने से 
उनके गुणों के संरक्षण पर बुरा असर हो सकता है।
•	 आपका उपकरण तुषार मुक्त है, जिसका अर्थ है कि अपने उपकरण 
को मैन्युअल रूप से विहिमीकृत करने की आवश्यकता नहीं है। यह 
स्वचालित रूप से हो जाएगा।
Untitled-3   24
11/14/2017   7:37:08 PM


--- PAGE 69 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  25
सुरक्षा जानका
•	 विहिमीकरण के दौरान तापमान में बढ़ोतरी ISO अपेक्षाओं का अनुपालन 
करती है। अगर आप उपकरण के विहिमीकरण के दौरान फ़्रोजन खाद्य 
पदार्थ के तापमान में अनावश्यक वृद्धि से बचना चाहते हैं, तो फ़्रोजन 
खाद्य पदार्थ को समाचारपत्र की कई परतों में लपेट दें।
•	 उन जमे भोजनों को फिर न जमाएँ जो पूरी तरह पिघल चुकें हैं।
•	 दो सितारा चिन्ह वाले दो सितारा खंड (खंडों) या कंपार्टमेंट (कंपार्टमेंटस) 
का तापमान, (
) अन्य फ्रीज़र कंपार्टमेंट (कंपार्टमेंटस) से थोड़ा अधिक 
होता है।
दो सितारा खंड या कंपार्टमेंट निर्देश पर और/या सुपुर्द करते समय की 
स्थिति पर आधारित होते हैं।
यह उपकरण केवल घरेलू या इसी प्रकार के स्थानों पर उपयोग 
किए जाने के लिए बनाया गया है, जैसे कि
•	 दुकानों, कार्यालयों और अन्य कार्यस्थलों में कर्मचारियों के लिए बने 
रसोईघरों में;
•	 फ़ार्म हाउस में और होटलों, मोटलों और अन्य आवासीय स्थानों पर 
क्लाइंट द्वारा;
•	 विश्राम और खान-पान वाले परिवेश में;
•	 केटरिंग और इसी प्रकार के गैर-खुदरा स्थानों पर।
Untitled-3   25
11/14/2017   7:37:08 PM


--- PAGE 70 (TEXT) ---
सुरक्षा जानका
हिंदी
26 
सुरक्षा जानका
WEEE के बारे में निर्देश
इस उत्पाद का सही निपटान (अपशिष्ट इलेक्ट्रिकल एवं इलेक्ट्रॉनिक उपकरण)
(पृथक संग्रहण प्रणालियों वाले देशों में लागू)
इस उत्पाद, सहायक उपकरणों या इसके दस्तावेज़ों पर स्थित चिह्नांकन दर्शाता है कि 
इस उत्पाद, इसके इलेक्ट्रॉनिक सहायक उपकरणों (जैसे चार्जर, हैडसेट, USB केबल) का 
जीवनकाल समाप्त होने पर उनका निपटान अन्य घरेलू कचरे के साथ नहीं किया जाना 
चाहिए। अनियंत्रित अपशिष्ट निपटान से पर्यावरण और मनुष्यों को होने वाले नुकसान 
को रोकने के लिए, कृपया इन आइटम को अन्य प्रकार के कचरे से अलग कर दें और 
सामग्री संसाधनों के दीर्घकालिक पुनः उपयोग को बढ़ावा देने के लिए उन्हें ज़िम्मेदारी से 
रिसाइकल करें।
सुरक्षित निपटान और रिसाइकल करने के बारे में अधिक जानकारी के लिए हमारी 
वेबसाइट www.samsung.com/in/support पर जाएँ या नीचे दिए हमारे हेल्पलाइन नंबर 
- 1800 40 SAMSUNG (1800 40 7267864) पर संपर्क करें।
Untitled-3   26
11/14/2017   7:37:08 PM


--- PAGE 71 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  27
स्थापना
इस रेफ़्रिजरेटर की उचित स्थापना और इसके उपयोग से पहले दुर्घटनाओं की रोकथाम सुनिश्चित करने के 
लिए इन निर्देशों का ध्यानपूर्वक पालन करें।
चेतावनी
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर का उपयोग इस निर्देश पुस्तिका में वर्णित नियत उद्देश्य के लिए ही करें।
•	 किसी भी प्रकार की सर्विसिंग केवल योग्यता-प्राप्त तकनीशियनों द्वारा की जानी चाहिए।
•	 उत्पाद पैकेजिंग सामग्रियों का निपटान स्थानीय विनियमों के अनुसार करें।
रेफ़्रिजरेटर एक नज़र में
नोट
वास्तविक छवि और प्रदान किए गए रेफ़्रिजरेटर के संघटक हिस्से, मॉडल और देश के अनुसार भिन्न हो सकते 
हैं।
06
07
08
01
02
03
04
05
01	शेल्फ़ फ़्रे *
02	आइस मेकर *
03	फ़्रेश रूम *
04	डीयोडोराइज़र *
05	वेजिटेबल ड्रावर *
06	फ्रीज़र डोर बिन
07	फ्रिज़ डोर बिन
08	बहु संग्रहण टोकरी *
* केवल उपयुक्त मॉडल
स्थापन
Untitled-3   27
11/14/2017   7:37:08 PM


--- PAGE 72 (TEXT) ---
स्थापन
हिंदी
28 
स्थापन
वैकल्पिक सहायक उपकरण *
कूल पैक: यह रेफ़्रिजरेटर को ठंडा रखने में मदद करता है।
आइस ट्रे: बर्फ बनाने के लिए प्रयोग किया जाता है।
ट्विस्ट आइस मेकर: बर्फ बनाने के लिए प्रयोग किया जाता है।
* आपके रेफ़्रिजरेटर में ऊपर सूचीबद्ध वैकल्पिक सहायक उपकरण संभवतः शामिल न हों। वैकल्पिक सहायक 
उपकरणों का प्रावधान मॉडल और देश पर निर्भर करता है।
Untitled-3   28
11/14/2017   7:37:09 PM


--- PAGE 73 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  29
स्थापन
फ़्रीजर कंपार्टमेंट में भंडारण के लिए अधिक जगह सुरक्षित करने के लिए
एक या अधिक वैकल्पिक सहायक उपकरण जैसे कि कूल पैक, शेल्फ़, ट्विस्ट आइस मेकर, बर्फ संग्रहण पात्र 
और उनके आधार को निकालें, इनमें से सभी को बिना कोई उपकरण मैन्युअली हटाया जा सकता है।
•	 ये वैकल्पिक सहायक उपकरण ऊष्मीय और यांत्रिक प्रदर्शन को प्रभावित नहीं करते हैं।
•	 फ़्रीजर का घोषित संग्रहण वॉल्यूम उन वैकल्पिक सहायक उपकरणों की गैर-मौजूदगी पर आधारित होता है।
•	 दोनों आइस मेकर्स को निकालने के लिए, पहले दाएँ वाले को निकालें (आइस मैक्स मॉडलों पर लागू)।
•	 सर्वश्रेष्ठ ऊर्जा दक्षता के लिए, सुनिश्चित करें कि सभी शेल्फ़, ड्रॉअर, और बास्केट अपने मूल स्थान पर 
लगे हों।
भार सीमा संकेतक (केवल उपयुक्त मॉडल)
रेफ़्रिजरेटर में फ़्रीजर कंपार्टमेंट के ऊपरी दाएँ हिस्से 
में भार सीमा संकेतक मौजूद होता है।
सावधान
•	 भार सीमा संकेतक से अधिक खाद्य पदार्थ नहीं 
रखें। अन्यथा, ऊर्जा दक्षता प्रभावित हो सकती है।
Untitled-3   29
11/14/2017   7:37:09 PM


--- PAGE 74 (TEXT) ---
स्थापन
हिंदी
30 
स्थापन
चरण-दर-चरण स्थापना
चरण 1 कोई एक साइट चुनें
स्थान की आवश्यकताएँ:
•	 ठोस, समतल सतह बगैर किसी प्रकार के कार्पेट या फ़्लोरिंग के जो कि वेंटिलेशन को बाधित कर सकते हैं
•	 सीधी धूप से दूर
•	 दरवाज़ा खोलने और बंद करने के लिए पर्याप्त जगह
•	 गर्मी के स्रोत से दूर
•	 रख-रखाव और सर्विसिंग के लिए जगह
•	 तापमान सीमा: 10 °C से 43 °C के बीच
प्रभावी तापमान सीमा
रेफ़्रिजरेटर को इस प्रकार डिज़ाइन किया गया है कि यह अपनी श्रेणी रेटिंग में निर्दिष्ट तापमान सीमा में 
सामान्य रूप से काम करे।
श्रेणी
प्रतीक
परिवेशी तापमान सीमा (°C)
IEC 62552 (ISO 15502)
ISO 8561
विस्तृत परिमित
SN
+10 से +32 तक
+10 से +32 तक
परिमित
N
+16 से +32 तक
+16 से +32 तक
उपोष्णकटिबंधीय
ST
+16 से +38 तक
+18 से +38 तक
उष्णकटिबंधीय
T
+16 से +43 तक
+18 से +43 तक
नोट
रेफ़्रिजरेटर का कूलिंग प्रदर्शन और बिजली उपभोग परिवेशी तापमान, दरवाज़ा खुलने की आवृत्ति, रेफ़्रिजरेटर के 
स्थान से प्रभावित हो सकता है। हम तापमान सेटिंग को उपयुक्ततानुसार समायोजित करने की अनुशंसा करते 
हैं।
Untitled-3   30
11/14/2017   7:37:09 PM


--- PAGE 75 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  31
स्थापन
क्लीयरेंस
स्थापना के लिए स्थान की आवश्यकताओं के बारे में जानने के लिए नीचे प्रदान चित्र और तालिका देखें।
01
02
मॉडल
A
B
C
RT32/37
1221
1040
135°
RT29/34
1221
1040
135°
(इकाई: मिमी)
01	100 मिमी
02	50 मिमी
03	कम से कम 50 मिमी
B
C
A
03
03
Untitled-3   31
11/14/2017   7:37:09 PM


--- PAGE 76 (TEXT) ---
स्थापन
हिंदी
32 
स्थापन
चरण 2 सतह
•	 जिस सतह पर रेफ़्रिजरेटर को रखा जाएगा, वह 
पूरी तरह से लोड किए गए या लगभग 90 किलो 
के रेफ़्रिजरेटर का भार संभालने योग्य होनी 
चाहिए।
•	 फ़र्श की सुरक्षा के लिए, रेफ़्रिजरेटर के प्रत्येक 
पाँव के नीचे कार्डबोर्ड का एक बड़ा टुकड़ा रख दें।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अपने अंतिम स्थान पर आ जाने 
के बाद, इसे तब तक न हिलाएँ जब तक फ़र्श की 
सुरक्षा के लिए ऐसा करना आवश्यक न हो। यदि 
आपको ऐसा करना पड़े, तो स्थानांतरण पथ पर 
मोटे कागज़ या कपड़े जैसे कि पुराने कार्पेट का 
उपयोग करें।
चरण 3 समतलीकरण पाया को समायोजित करें
समतलीकरण पाया को मैन्युअली समायोजित करके 
रेफ़्रिजरेटर को समतल करें। स्थान नीचे करने के 
लिए समतलीकरण पाया को घड़ी की सुई की दिशा 
में घुमाएँ, उठाने के लिए घड़ी की सुई की दिशा के 
विपरीत घुमाएँ। सुरक्षा कारणों से, सामने के हिस्से 
को पीछे के हिस्से के मुकाबले थोड़ा ऊपर रखें।
सावधान
रेफ़्रिजरेटर को स्थानांतरित करने से पहले, 
समतलीकरण पाया काउंटर को घड़ी की सुई की 
विपरीत दिशा में घुमाना सुनिश्चित करें ताकि 
रेफ़्रिजरेटर का तल फ़र्श से कम से कम 66 मिमी 
पर हो।
Untitled-3   32
11/14/2017   7:37:10 PM


--- PAGE 77 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  33
स्थापन
चरण 4 आरंभिक सेटिंग
निम्न चरणों को पूरा करने पर, रेफ़्रिजरेटर पूरी तरह से संचालनीय हो जाना चाहिए।
1.	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर को चालू करने के लिए बिजली के प्लग को दीवार पर लगे सॉकेट में लगाएँ।
2.	 दरवाज़ा खोलें, और देखें कि अंदरूनी लाइट जले हैं या नहीं।
3.	 तापमान को सबसे ठंडे तापमान पर सेट करें, और लगभग एक घंटे तक प्रतीक्षा करें। फिर, फ़्रीज़र थोड़ा 
ठंडा हो जाएगा और मोटर आराम से चलने लगेगी।
4.	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के तय तापमान पर पहुँचने तक प्रतीक्षा करें। अब रेफ़्रिजरेटर उपयोग के लिए तैयार है।
चरण 5 अंतिम जाँच
स्थापना पूरी हो जाने पर, पुष्टि करें कि:
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर का प्लग बिजली के आउटलेट में लगा हो और रेफ़्रिजरेटर उचित ढंग से ग्राउंड किया गया हो।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर सपाट, समतल सतह पर स्थापित हो तथा दीवार या कैबिनेट से पर्याप्त दूरी पर हो।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर समतल हो और फ़र्श पर मज़बूती से स्थापित हो।
•	 दरवाज़ा बिना रोक टोक खुलता और बंद होता हो, दरवाज़ा खुलने पर अंदरूनी लाइट स्वचालित रूप से जल 
जाते हों।
Untitled-3   33
11/14/2017   7:37:10 PM


--- PAGE 78 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी
34 
परिचालन
विशेषता पैनल
बटन प्रकार
01
02
03
01
02
03
01	Freezer (फ्रीज़र) / 
Power Freeze (पॉवर 
फ्रीज़)
02	Freezer Convert (फ्रीज़र 
कन्वर्ट) / Ice On/Off (बर्फ़ 
ऑन/ऑफ़) (केवल उपयुक्त 
मॉडल)
03	Fridge (फ्रिज़) / 
Power Cool (पॉवर कूल)
परिचालन
Untitled-3   34
11/14/2017   7:37:10 PM


--- PAGE 79 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  35
परिचालन
01 फ्रीज़र / पॉवर फ्रीज़
Freezer (फ्रीज़र)
Freezer (फ्रीज़र) के बटन को -15 °C और -23 °C के बीच का फ्रीजर तापमान 
सेट करने के लिए उपयोग किया जा सकता है (डिफ़ॉल्ट: -19 °C)।
आपके प्रत्येक बार बटन दबाने पर, तापमान निम्न क्रम में बदल जाता है:
-23 °C  -15 °C  -17 °C  -19 °C  -21 °C  -23 °C
सावधान
•	 सिस्टम या खाद्य पदार्थ खराब होने से बचाने के लिए, गर्मी (35 °C से ऊपर) 
के दौरान तापमान को -15 °C पर सेट नहीं करें।
•	 फ़्रीजर में किसी द्रव्य से भरे काँच की बोतल को नहीं रखें। काँच की बोतल में 
द्रव्य जमने पर दरार उत्पन्न हो जाएगी है और यह टूट जाएगी।
Power Freeze 
(पॉवर फ्रीज़)
पॉवर फ्रीज़ अधिकतम फैन गति पर प्रशीतलन गति को बढ़ा देता है। फ़्रीजर कई घंटों 
तक पूरी गति से चलता रहता है और फिर पिछले तापमान पर लौट जाता है।
•	 पॉवर फ्रीज़ को सक्रिय करने के लिए, Freezer (फ्रीज़र) को 3 सेकंड तक के 
लिए दबाकर रखें। अनुकूल संकेतक (
) की लाइट चालू हो जाती है, और 
रेफ़्रिजरेटर आपके लिए शीतलन की गति को बढ़ा देता है।
•	 निष्क्रिय करने के लिए, Freezer (फ्रीज़र) को फिर से 3 सेकंड तक के लिए 
दबाकर रखें। फ़्रीजर पिछली तापमान सेटिंग पर लौट जाता है।
•	 बड़ी मात्रा में भोजन को फ्रीज़ करने के लिए, फ्रीजर में भोजन रखने से पहले 
पॉवर फ्रीज़ बटन को कम से कम 20 घंटे पहले सक्रिय करें।
•	 फ़्रीजर 50 घंटा तक पूरी गति से चलता रहता है और फिर पिछले तापमान पर 
लौट जाता है।
नोट
पॉवर फ्रीज़ का उपयोग बिजली की खपत को बढ़ाता है। यदि आपका इसका उपयोग 
करने का इरादा नहीं है तो इसे ऑफ़ करना और पिछले तापमान पर लौटना 
सुनिश्चित करें।
Untitled-3   35
11/14/2017   7:37:10 PM


--- PAGE 80 (TEXT) ---
परिचालन
हिंदी
36 
परिचालन
02 फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट / बर्फ़ ऑन/ऑफ़ (केवल लागू मॉडल)
Freezer Convert 
(फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट)
आप फ्रिज़ मोड के साथ पूरे रेफ़्रिजरेटर का उपयोग कर सकते हैं, या फ्रीज़र को बंद 
कर सकते हैं।
डिफ़ॉल्ट फ़्रीजर मोड बदलने के लिए, चयन मोड में प्रवेश करने के लिए Freezer 
Convert (फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट) दबाएँ और 3 सेकेंड के लिए रोक कर रखें। फिर, वांछित 
मोड चुनने के लिए Freezer Convert (फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट) दबाएँ।
मोड निम्न क्रम में बदल जाता है: फ्रिज़  ऑफ़  फ्रीज़र  ऑफ़  फ्रिज़ सेटिंग 
मोड।
•	 यदि आप फ्रिज़ का चयन करते हैं, तो फ्रिज़ का इंडिकेटर चालू हो जाता है। पॉवर 
फ्रीज़ सक्रिय होने पर निष्क्रिय हो जाएगा, और बर्फ़ ऑन सक्षम होने पर बंद हो 
जाएगा।
•	 यदि आप ऑफ़ का चयन करते हैं, तो ऑफ का इंडिकेटर चालू हो जाता है। 
फ़्रीजर ऑफ़ हो जाएगा।
•	 यदि आप फ्रीज़र सेटिंग मोड का चयन करते हैं, तो फ्रीज़र तापमान इंडिकेटर 
आपके चयन के लिए चालू हो जाते हैं। डिफ़ॉल्ट फ़्रीजर तापमान -19 °C है।
आपके द्वारा किए गए परिवर्तन 10 सेकेंड के बाद सेट कर दिए जाएँगे और सक्रिय 
कर दिए जाएँगे। मोड को रद्द करने या फिर से बदलने के लिए, Freezer Convert 
(फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट) को फिर से दबाएँ और 3 सेकेंड तक रोक कर रहें। फिर, ऊपर बताए 
गए निर्देशों का अनुसरण करें।
नोट
•	 यदि आप Freezer Convert (फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट) को फ्रीज़र मोड में 3 सेकंड तक 
दबाकर रखते हैं, तो रेफ़्रिजरेटर फ्रिज़ मोड पर स्विच हो जाता है और आप एक 
मोड (चयन मोड) का चयन कर सकते हैं।
•	 यदि आप Freezer Convert (फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट) को दूसरे मोड में 3 सेकंड तक 
दबाकर रखते हैं, तो रेफ़्रिजरेटर ऐसे मोड पर स्विच हो जाता है जहाँ आप 
Freezer Convert (फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट) मोड को दबा सकते हैं या किसी दूसरे मोड 
का चयन कर सकते हैं।
•	 जब प्रशीतन या फ्रीज़िंग फ़ंक्शन 'ऑफ़ मोड पर होते हैं', फ्रिज़ या फ्रीज़र का 
तापमान 15 °C के नीचे रहता है ताकि कम बिजली का इस्तेमाल करते हुए 
कवक और दुर्गन्ध को रोका जा सके।
•	 फ्रिज़ या फ़्रीज़र को अलग-अलग बंद नहीं किया जा सकता है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेशन या प्रशीतन के फ़ंक्शन 'ऑफ़ मोड' पर हों तब रेफ़्रिजरेटर में खाद्य या 
पेय पदार्थ को स्टोर ना करें। इनके खराब होने से रोकने के लिए 15 °C पर्याप्त 
ठंडा नहीं होता है।
चेतावनी
•	 फ़्रीजर में किसी द्रव्य से भरे काँच की बोतल को नहीं रखें। फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट को रद्द करते समय, कांच की 
बोतलें फ्रिज़र में टूट सकती है या फट सकती हैं।
Untitled-3   36
11/14/2017   7:37:11 PM


--- PAGE 81 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  37
परिचालन
•	 फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट को सक्षम करने से पहले फ्रीज़र से फ़्रोजन खाद्य पदार्थों को हटाना सुनिश्चित करें। तापमान 
बढ़ने से फ़्रोजन खाद्य पदार्थ (फ्रीज़र  मोड का फ्रिज़ मोड में परिवर्तन) पिघल कर खराब हो जाते हैं।
•	 फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट को अक्षम करने से पहले फ्रीज़र से जमे हुए खाद्य पदार्थों को हटाना सुनिश्चित करें। 
तापमान कम होने से ठंडे खाद्य पदार्थ (फ्रिज़ मोड का फ्रीज़र मोड में परिवर्तन) फ्रीज़/जम सकते हैं।
नोट
यदि आप फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट का उपयोग करना चाहते हैं, तो आपको विशेष रूप से सब्जियों जैसे खाद्य पदार्थों को 
प्लास्टिक के कंटेनरों में स्टोर करने की पुरजोर अनुशंसा की जाती है।
Ice On/Off (बर्फ़ 
ऑन/ऑफ़)
(केवल उपयुक्त मॉडल)
डिफ़ॉल्ट रूप से, रेफ़्रिजरेटर अनुकूल संकेतक के ऑन रहते बर्फ़ जमाने के लिए सेट 
होता है। इस फ़ंक्शन को अक्षम करने के लिए, Ice On/Off (बर्फ़ ऑन/ऑफ़) दबाकर 
इसे ऑफ़ करें। हम निम्न स्थितियों में इस फ़ंक्शन को अक्षम करने की अनुशंसा 
करते हैं:
•	 आइस बकेट में पहले से ही बर्फ भरा हो।
•	 आप बिजली की खपत कम करना चाहते हैं।
•	 पानी की टंकी खाली हो।
नोट
यदि आप Freezer Convert (फ्रीज़र कन्वर्ट) को दबाकर फ्रिज़ या ऑफ़ को चुनते 
हैं, तो रेफ़्रिजरेटर बर्फ़ ऑफ मोड़ में प्रवेश करता है।
03 फ्रिज़ / पॉवर कूल
Fridge (फ्रिज़)
फ़्रीज तापमान समायोजित करने के लिए, अनुकूल तापमान चुनने के लिए Fridge 
(फ्रिज़) दबाएँ। आप 1 °C और 7 °C के बीच तापमान सेट कर सकते हैं 
(डिफ़ॉल्ट: 3 °C)।
तापमान के 1 °C पर सेट रहते, अवकाश संकेतक ऑन करने के लिए Fridge 
(फ्रिज़) दबाएँ। तापमान बार ऑफ़ हो जाता है। अवकाश मोड को निष्क्रिय करने के 
लिए दुबारा दबाएँ। तापमान बार 7 °C प्रदर्शित करता है।
सावधान
•	 सर्दी के मौसम, तापमान नियंत्रण 1 °C पर सेट नहीं करें। इससे कूलिंग प्रदर्शन 
में समस्याएँ आ सकती हैं।
•	 गर्मी के मौसम, तापमान नियंत्रण को 5-7 °C पर सेट नहीं करें। इससे भी 
कूलिंग प्रदर्शन में समस्याएँ आ सकती हैं।
Untitled-3   37
11/14/2017   7:37:11 PM


--- PAGE 82 (TEXT) ---
परिचालन
हिंदी
38 
परिचालन
Power Cool 
(पॉवर कूल)
पॉवर कूल अधिकतम फैन गति पर ठंडा करने की गति को बढ़ा देता है। फ़्रीज कई 
घंटों तक पूरी गति से चलता रहता है और फिर पिछले तापमान पर लौट जाता है।
•	 पॉवर कूल को सक्रिय करने के लिए, Fridge (फ्रिज़) को 3 सेकंड तक के लिए 
दबाकर रखें। अनुकूल संकेतक (
) की लाइट चालू हो जाती है, और रेफ़्रिजरेटर 
आपके लिए शीतलन की गति को बढ़ा देता है।
•	 पॉवर कूल को निष्क्रिय करने के लिए, Fridge (फ्रिज़) को 3 सेकंड तक के लिए 
दबाकर रखें। फ़्रीज पिछली तापमान सेटिंग पर लौट जाता है।
नोट
पॉवर कूल का उपयोग बिजली की खपत को बढ़ाता है। यदि आपका इसका उपयोग 
करने का इरादा नहीं है तो इसे ऑफ़ करना और पिछले तापमान पर लौटना 
सुनिश्चित करें।
Vacation 
(अवकाश)
यदि आप अवकाश या व्यावसायिक यात्रा पर जा रहे हैं, या यदि आप विस्तारित 
समय के लिए फ्रिज़ का उपयोग नहीं करना चाहते हैं, तो अवकाश मोड का उपयोग 
करें।
•	 अवकाश मोड को सक्रिय करने के लिए, Fridge (फ्रिज़) को चयनित इंडिकेटर 
1 °C के साथ दबाएं। अवकाश इंडिकेटर (
) चालू हो जाएगा और फ्रिज़ के 
तापमान का डिस्प्ले बंद हो जाएगा। फ्रिज़ का तापमान 17 °C से नीचे नियंत्रित 
हो जाएगा, लेकिन पहले से सेट किया गया फ्रीज़र सक्रिय रहेगा।
•	 अवकाश मोड को निष्क्रिय करने के लिए, Fridge (फ्रिज़) को दोबारा दबाएँ। फ़्रीज 
तापमान डिफ़ॉल्ट 7 °C पर बहाल हो जाएगा।
नोट
इसकी पुरजोर अनुशंसा की जाती है कि फ़्रीज कंपार्टमेंट खाली कर दिया जाए और 
दरवाज़ा का बंद होना सुनिश्चित हो।
Untitled-3   38
11/14/2017   7:37:11 PM


--- PAGE 83 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  39
परिचालन
डायल प्रकार
फ्रिज़
अनुकूलतम प्रदर्शन के लिए, हम तापमान को Optimal (अनुकूलतम) तापमान पर रखने की पुरजोर अनुशंसा 
करते हैं।
•	 अत्यधिक कूलिंग हेतु तापमान घटाने के लिए, 
तापमान नियंत्रण को 4-5 स्तर पर सेट करें।
•	 कम कूलिंग हेतु तापमान बढ़ाने के लिए, तापमान 
नियंत्रण को 1-2 स्तर पर सेट करें।
सावधान
•	 सर्दी के मौसम में, तापमान नियंत्रण को 4-5 स्तर पर सेट नहीं करें। इससे कूलिंग प्रदर्शन में समस्याएँ हो 
सकती हैं।
•	 गर्मी के मौसम में, तापमान नियंत्रण को 1-2 स्तर पर सेट नहीं करें। इससे भी कूलिंग प्रदर्शन में 
समस्याएँ हो सकती हैं।
अवकाश
यदि आप अवकाश या व्यावसायिक यात्रा पर जा रहे हैं, या यदि आप विस्तारित समय के लिए फ्रिज़ का 
उपयोग नहीं करना चाहते हैं, तो अवकाश मोड का उपयोग करें।
अवकाश मोड को सक्रिय करने के लिए, फ्रिज़ के 
डायल को घुमाकर Vacation (अवकाश) (अवकाश 
मोड) को चुनें। फ्रिज़ का तापमान 17 °C से नीचे 
नियंत्रित हो जाएगा, लेकिन पहले से सेट किया गया 
फ्रीज़र सक्रिय रहेगा। फ्रिज़ का तापमान समायोजित 
करने परअवकाश मोड स्वचालित रूप से निष्क्रिय हो 
जाएगा।
नोट
इसकी पुरजोर अनुशंसा की जाती है कि फ़्रीज कंपार्टमेंट खाली कर दिया जाए और दरवाज़ा का बंद होना 
सुनिश्चित हो।
Untitled-3   39
11/14/2017   7:37:12 PM


--- PAGE 84 (TEXT) ---
परिचालन
हिंदी
40 
परिचालन
फ्रीज़र
•	 अत्यधिक कूलिंग हेतु तापमान घटाने के लिए, 
तापमान नियंत्रण को 4-5 स्तर पर सेट करें।
•	 कम कूलिंग हेतु तापमान बढ़ाने के लिए, तापमान 
नियंत्रण को 1-2 स्तर पर सेट करें।
सावधान
•	 सर्दी के मौसम में, तापमान नियंत्रण को 4-5 स्तर पर सेट नहीं करें। इससे कूलिंग प्रदर्शन में समस्याएँ हो 
सकती हैं।
•	 गर्मी के मौसम में, तापमान नियंत्रण को 1-2 स्तर पर सेट नहीं करें। इससे भी कूलिंग प्रदर्शन में 
समस्याएँ हो सकती हैं।
फ़्रीज (परिवर्तनीय)
आप फ्रीज़र का इस्तेमाल फ्रिज़ मोड में करते हैं।
फ्रीज़र के लिए फ्रिज़ मोड को सक्षम करने के लिए, फ्रीज़र के तापमान को चालू करें। डायल को Fridge 
(Convertible) (फ्रिज़ (परिवर्तनीय)) स्तर पर नियंत्रण करें।
सेटअप पूरा हो जाने के बाद, फ़्रीजर के तापमान को नियंत्रित करके लगभग 3 °C कर दिया जाता है।
नोट
इसकी पुरजोर अनुशंसा की जाती है कि फ़्रीज कंपार्टमेंट खाली कर दिया जाए और दरवाज़ा का बंद होना 
सुनिश्चित हो।
Untitled-3   40
11/14/2017   7:37:12 PM


--- PAGE 85 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  41
परिचालन
विशेष सुविधाएँ
आपके रेफ़्रिजरेटर की वास्तविक छवि और विशेष फ़ंक्शन, मॉडल और देश के अनुसार भिन्न हो सकते हैं।
बर्फ़ बनाना (केवल उपयुक्त मॉडल)
ट्विस्ट आइस मेकर
A
1.	 फ़्रीजर का दरवाज़ा खोलें, और आइस ट्रे को 
सरका कर खोलें।
2.	 ट्रे के पिछले अंदरूनी हिस्से में चिह्नित 
अधिकतम स्तर (A) तक पानी भर दें।
3.	 ट्रे को सरका कर वापस उसके स्थान पर लगा दें।
नोट
बर्फ़ जमाने का समय आपकी तापमान सेटिंग पर 
निर्भर करता है।
नोट
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि आइस क्यूब संग्रहण डिब्बा 
आइस ट्रे के नीचे रखा गया हो।
•	 बर्फ़ के टुकड़े निकालने के लिए, डिब्बे के हैंडल 
को दाएँ मोड़ें ताकि लगभग आधे बर्फ़ के टुकड़े 
बाहर निकल आएँ। फिर, इसे बाएँ मोड़े ताकि शेष 
भी बाहर निकल आए।
•	 डिब्बे को थोड़ा से मोड़ कर और सामने की तरफ 
बाहर खींच कर निकालें।
Untitled-3   41
11/14/2017   7:37:13 PM


--- PAGE 86 (TEXT) ---
परिचालन
हिंदी
42 
परिचालन
ट्रे प्रकार
A
बर्फ़ के टुकड़े बनाने के लिए, ट्रे के पिछले अंदरूनी 
हिस्से में चिह्नित अधिकतम स्तर (A) तक पानी 
भर दें।
आइस ट्रे खाली करने के लिए, ट्रे का दोनों छोर 
पकड़ें और बर्फ़ के टुकड़े निकालने के लिए आहिस्ते 
से मोड़ें।
Untitled-3   42
11/14/2017   7:37:13 PM


--- PAGE 87 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  43
रखरखाव
प्रबंधन और देखभाल
प्रदान किए गए आइस ट्रे के मॉडल
पहले आइस ट्रे निकालें, और फिर फ़्रीजर शेल्फ को 
बाहर निकालने के लिए उसे ऊपर उठाएँ।
फ़्रीजर और फ़्रीज शेल्फ
•	 शेल्फ़ निकालने के लिए, पहले दरवाजा पूरी तरह 
खोलें। शेल्फ़ को सामने की तरफ खींचें, ऊपर 
उठाएँ, और फिर बाहर खींचें।
•	 शेल्फ़ को पुनः लगाते समय, सुनिश्चित करें 
कि शेल्फ़ का “सामने” लेबल सामने की तरफ 
सम्मुख हो।
•	 शेल्फ़ को झुका कर उसके स्थान पर लगाने का 
प्रयास नहीं करें।
डोर बिन
थोड़ा सा ऊपर उठाकर डोर बिन को बाहर खींचें।
सावधान
दुर्घटनाओं को रोकने के लिए, डोर बिन्स को 
निकालने से पहले खाली करें।
रखरखाव
Untitled-3   43
11/14/2017   7:37:14 PM


--- PAGE 88 (TEXT) ---
रखरखाव
हिंदी
44 
रखरखाव
सफ़ाई
पावर प्लग टर्मिनलों और संपर्क बिंदुओं से धूल या पानी जैसे सभी बाहरी पदार्थों को हटाने के लिए नियमित 
रूप से सूखे कपड़े का उपयोग करें।
1.	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर की बिजली की तार को प्लग से निकाल दें।
2.	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदरूनी और बाहरी हिस्से को साफ़ करने के लिए नम मुलायम रोआँ-मुक्त कपड़े या पेपर 
टॉवल का उपयोग करें।
3.	 सफ़ाई पूरा हो जाने पर, अच्छी तरह से सूखाने के लिए सूखे कपड़े या पेपर टॉवल का उपयोग करें।
4.	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर चालू करने के लिए रेफ़्रिजरेटर के बिजली के प्लग को सॉकेट में लगाएँ।
नोट
यदि आपने सफ़ाई के लिए किन्हीं हटाने योग्य हिस्सों को निकाला हो, तो क्या शामिल है अनुभाग में समग्र 
लेआउट देखें ताकि सही ढंग से वापस लगाना सुनिश्चित हो सके।
चेतावनी
•	 सफ़ाई के लिए बेन्ज़ीन, थिनर, या होम/कार डिटर्जेंट जैसे कि Clorox™ का उपयोग नहीं करें। वे रेफ़्रिजरेटर 
की सतह को क्षति पहुँचा सकते हैं और आग लगा सकते हैं।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर पर पानी का छिड़काव न करें। इसके कारण बिजली का झटका लग सकता है।
•	 डिस्पेंसर के छिद्र में उंगलियाँ या अन्य वस्तुएँ न डालें।
प्रतिस्थापन
डीयोडोराइज़र फ़िल्टर (केवल उपयुक्त मॉडल)
A
फ़िल्टर केस का ऊपरी और निचला हिस्सा पकड़े हुए, 
फ़िल्टर केस को अनलॉक करें ताकि डीयोडोराइज़र 
फ़िल्टर (A) प्रकट हो सके। फ़िल्टर बदलें, और फिर 
केस को पुनः लगा दें।
लैंप
लैंप उपयोगकर्ता द्वारा मरम्मत योग्य नहीं होते हैं। रेफ़्रिजरेटर का लैंप बदलने के लिए, स्थानीय Samsung 
सर्विस सेंटर से संपर्क करें।
Untitled-3   44
11/14/2017   7:37:14 PM


--- PAGE 89 (TEXT) ---
हिंदी  45
समस्या-निवारण
यदि आप रेफ़्रिजरेटर के साथ किसी असामान्य स्थिति का सामना करते हैं, तो पहले नीचे प्रदान तालिका देखें 
और सुझावों को आजमाएँ।
सामान्य
लक्षण
कार्य
संचालन या ठंडा न करें।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि बिजली की तार सही ढंग से लगी हो।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि तापमान नियंत्रण सही ढंग से सेट हो।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर को सीधी धूप या गर्मी के स्रोत दूर रखना सुनिश्चित करें। ऐसा 
करने में विफलता के कारण कूलिंग प्रदर्शन प्रभावित हो सकता है।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि रेफ़्रिजरेटर से पीछे और बगल की दीवारों या कैबिनेट 
की दूरी पर्याप्त हो। ऐसा करने में विफलता के कारण कूलिंग प्रदर्शन 
प्रभावित हो सकता है।
•	 अत्यधिक खाद्य पदार्थ रेफ़्रिजरेटर के वेंटिलेशन को बाधित कर सकता है। 
रेफ़्रिजरेटर का सामान्य परिचालन बनाए रखने के लिए, अंदर बहुत अधिक 
खाद्य पदार्थ नहीं रखें।
फ़्रीज में रखा भोजन जम 
जाता है।
•	 जाँचें कि क्या तापमान नियंत्रण न्यूनतम तापमान पर सेट है। यदि ऐसा 
है, तो तापमान को बदल कर अधिक या इष्टतम कर दें।
•	 यह तब होता है जब परिवेशी तापमान बहुत कम होता है। तापमान को 
अधिक पर सेट करें।
•	 जाँचें कि क्या पानी की अधिक मात्रा वाला
 भोजन फ़्रीज के सबसे ठंडे 
जगह में या कूलिंग वेंट के निकट रखा गया है। यदि ऐसा है, तो भोजन 
को फ़्रीज के दूसरे शेल्फ़ में रख दें।
शोर करता है।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि रेफ़्रिजरेटर किसी स्थिर, सपाट सतह पर स्थापित है।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि रेफ़्रिजरेटर से पीछे और बगल की दीवारों या कैबिनेट 
की दूरी पर्याप्त हो।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदर या नीचे गंदगी या बाहरी वस्तुएँ न 
हों।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर अंदर से आवाज उत्पन्न कर सकता है, जो तब उत्पन्न होता है 
जब अलग-अलग हटाने योग्य हिस्से सिकुड़ते या फैलते हैं। यह प्रणाली की 
खराबी नहीं है।
सामने के कोने और बगल 
के हिस्से गर्म हो जाते 
हैं और संघनन आरंभ हो 
जाता है।
•	 संघनन की रोकथाम के लिए, रेफ़्रिजरेटर के सामने के कोनों में ताप-
रोधी पाइप होते हैं। यदि परिवेशी तापमान बढ़ जाता है, तो यह उपकरण 
संभवतः प्रभावी ढंग से काम न करे। यह प्रणाली की खराबी नहीं है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर की बाहरी सतह पर संघनन हो सकता है यदि नम हवा 
रेफ़्रिजरेटर की ठंडी सतह के संपर्क में आए।
समस्या-निवार
Untitled-3   45
11/14/2017   7:37:14 PM


--- PAGE 90 (TEXT) ---
समस्या-निवार
हिंदी
46 
समस्या-निवार
लक्षण
कार्य
आइस मेकर बर्फ़ नहीं 
बनाता है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर के बर्फ़ बनाने से पहले आपको 12 घंटे इंतजार करना चाहिए।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि बर्फ़ बनाते समय आइस मेकर रूका हुआ न हो।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि फ़्रीजर 0 °C (या गर्म परिवेशी हवा में -5 °C) से कम 
पर सेट हो।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि पानी की टंकी पानी से भरी हो।
पानी का डिस्पेंसर काम 
नहीं कर रहा है।
•	 जाँचें कि क्या पानी की टंकी जम तो नहीं गई है। यदि ऐसा है, तो 
उच्चतर फ़्रीज तापमान चुनें।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि पानी की टंकी पानी से भरी हो।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि पानी की टंकी ठीक तरह से स्थापित हो।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि पानी का फ़िल्टर ठीक तरह से स्थापित हो।
बुलबुले की आवाज उत्पन्न 
करता है।
•	 रेफ़्रिजरेटर यह आवाज कूलिंग प्रक्रिया के दौरान उत्पन्न करता है, जो कि 
सामान्य है।
रेफ़्रिजरेटर के अंदर से 
बदबू आती है।
•	 किन्हीं खराब हो चुके भोजन के लिए जाँच करें। हम रेफ़्रिजरेटर को 
नियमित रूप से साफ़ करने और किन्हीं खराब या संदिग्ध खाद्य पदार्थों 
को हटा देने की अनुशंसा करते हैं।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि तेज़ गंध वाले भोजन वायुरुद्ध तरीके से ढके हों।
अंदरूनी दीवारों पर तुषार 
जम जाता है।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि कोई भी खाद्य पदार्थ रेफ़्रिजरेटर के वायु निकास को 
अवरूद्ध न करे। यह भी महत्वपूर्ण है कि वायु-संचार के लिए खाद्य पदार्थ 
समान रूप से रखे गए हों।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि दरवाज़ा ठीक ठंग से बंद हो।
अंदरूनी दीवारों या 
सब्जियों के चारो तरफ 
संघनन हो सकता है।
•	 यह तब होता है जब पानी की अधिक मात्रा वाला
 खाद्य पदार्थ बिना ढके 
रखा गया हो, या दरवाज़ा कुछ समय के लिए खुला छोड़ दिया गया हो।
•	 सुनिश्चित करें कि खाद्य पदार्थ ढके हुए हों या बंद डिब्बों में रखे हों।
Untitled-3   46
11/14/2017   7:37:14 PM


--- PAGE 91 (TEXT) ---
मेमो
Untitled-3   47
11/14/2017   7:37:14 PM


--- PAGE 92 (TEXT) ---
SAMSUNG WORLD WIDE से संपर्क करें
अगर Samsung उत्पादों से संबंधित आपके कोई प्रश्न या टिप्पणियाँ हैं, तो कृपया SAMSUNG ग्राहक सेवा 
केंद्र से संपर्क करें।
देश
संपर्क केंद्र
वेबसाइट
INDIA
1800 40 SAMSUNG
(1800 40 7267864) (Toll-Free)
www.samsung.com/in/support
NEPAL
16600172667 (Toll Free for NTC Only)
9801572667
www.samsung.com/in/support
BANGLADESH
09612300300
08000300300 (Toll free)
www.samsung.com/in/support
SRI LANKA
+9411SAMSUNG (+94117267864)
+94117540540
+94115900000
www.samsung.com/in/support
यह उत्पाद RoHS अनुवर्ती है।
DA68-03374C-00
Untitled-3   48
11/14/2017   7:37:14 PM

